The organizers of the awards have announced nominations for the 2018 MTV EMAs, including six top acts from the African continent; Davido (Nigeria), Tiwa Savage (Nigeria), Distruction Boyz (South Africa), Fally Ipupa (DRC), Nyashinnski (Kenya) and Shekinah (South Africa). One winner will bring this category’s prestigious awards home from the ceremony which will be globally broadcast live from The “2018 MTV EMAs” at Bilbao Exhibition Centre, Barakaldo, Biscay on Sunday, November 4.  Internationally, Camila Cabello leads the nominations snagging six nods including “Best Song” and “Best Video” for her chart-topping hit ‘Havana’ featuring Young Thug, as well as “Best Artist” alongside Ariana Grande and Post Malone, who follow Cabello with five nods each. Drake and Dua Lipa also join the above contenders for “Best Artist,” scoring four nods each alongside Shawn Mendes, including “Best Local Act” for all three of their respective home countries. MTV creatively teased the nominees via a series of captivating Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR) videos, with visuals involving floral foam smashing, paint mixing and kinetic sand slicing for the “Best Artist,” “Best Song” and “Best Video” categories. Monde Twala, Vice President for Youth, Music and BET at Viacom International Media Networks (VIMN Africa) commented: “2018 has been an incredible year globally for African culture, music and talent. Once again, the 2018 MTV EMAs features Africa’s most celebrated entertainers who have the opportunity to showcase their talent through the MTV EMA Best Africa Act category at the annual awards. Our nominees reflect the diversity and talent of the continent on par with international artists. Congratulations to all our Africa nominees, who continue to affirm Africa’s place on the global stage.” The official sponsor of the “2018 MTV EMAs” is SKYY Vodka. Davido (Nigeria) Tiwa Savage (Nigeria) Distruction Boyz (South Africa) Fally Ipupa (DRC) Nyashinski (Kenya) Shekinah (South Africa) Ariana Grande Camila Cabello Drake Dua Lipa Post Malone Ariana Grande (No tears left to cry) Camila Cabello (Havana ft. Young Thug) Childish Gambino (This Is America) Lil Dicky (Freaky Friday ft. Chris Brown) The Carters (APES**T) Ariana Grande (No tears left to cry) Bebe Rexha (Meant To Be ft. Florida Georgia Line) Camila Cabello (Havana ft. Young Thug) Drake (God’s Plan) Post Malone (Rockstar ft. 21 Savage) Ariana Grande Camila Cabello Dua Lipa Hailee Steinfeld Shawn Mendes Anne-Marie Bazzi Cardi B Hayley Kiyoko Jessie Reyez Cardi B Dua Lipa Migos Nicki Minaj Post Malone Drake Eminem Migos Nicki Minaj Travis Scott Ed Sheeran Muse P!nk Shawn Mendes The Carters 5 Seconds Of Summer Foo Fighters Imagine Dragons Muse U2 Fall Out Boy Panic! At The Disco The 1975 Thirty Seconds To Mars Twenty-one pilots Calvin Harris David Guetta Marshmello Martin Garrix The Chainsmokers BTS Camila Cabello Selena Gomez Shawn Mendes Taylor Swift Clean Bandit (MTV Crashes Plymouth, UK 2017) Charli XCX (MTV Crashes Plymouth, UK 2017) David Guetta (Trafalgar Square, UK 2017) Jason Derulo (Isle of MTV Malta 2018) Post Malone (Wireless Festival, UK 2018) Migos (Wireless Festival, UK 2018) J Cole (Wireless Festival, UK 2018) Nick Jonas (MTV Spotlight @ Hyperplay, Singapore 2018) Alessia Cara (MTV Spotlight @ Hyperplay, Singapore 2018) PRETTYMUCH (October 2017) Why Don’t We (November 2017) Grace VanderWaal (December 2017) Bishop Briggs (January 2018) Superorganism (February 2018) Jessie Reyez (March 2018) Hayley Kiyoko (April 2018) Lil Xan (May 2018) Sigrid (June 2018) Chloe x Halle (July 2018) Bazzi (August 2018) Jorja Smith (September 2018) Ariana Grande Camila Cabello Cardi B