Tiwa Savage is regarded as one of Nigeria’s finest women. A lot of people have commended on her beauty and many ladies have claimed that she is their role model when it comes to fashion, style and beauty. Despite this attestation from many, the beautiful singer just revealed that she battles with low self esteem and does not see herself as a pretty woman.
The gorgeous mother of one made this revelation on her Instagram page. According to her, despite the life of glamour and thrills she is living, she still struggles with low self esteem and has always felt she was not beautiful most times Tiwatope highlighted that the life portrayed on social media can be attributed as one of the reasons for this insecurity. The recent winner of the Best African Act at the MTV EMA awards said that the glamour portrayed online is usually stiffening and intimidating. She also mentioned other girls who have reached out to her and expressed that they were insecure about their looks as it was far from being perfect. For this ladies, Tiwa said everyone is all in it together. Tiwa Savage comes for fan who said they are tired of celebrities Read her words below: “Social media can be intimidating but ultimately those ones with the purest of hearts will win. I get a lot of messages from young girls who are depressed with low self-esteem because they don’t feel pretty like the social media girls they see every day and my heart breaks because I feel like that too sometimes. We are all in this together, I’m not perfect, and not the prettiest, richest but I’ll remain kind and seek after God’s heart because none of the others matters to Him. Ultimately God’s approval is all we need. Get the hottest relationship gist on Africa Love Aid The astounding revelation Tiwa made about herself became heightened and near emotional when she said that she rarely feels she is pretty at all. Even more, this feeling of not being on par with the world’s standard of beauty increases with the knowledge that her beauty is enhanced by make up, filters and other clothing items made for this purpose. Whatever the case, Tiwa has attributed beauty not to the outside appearance but to the virtues within a person  (Legist)