By Anita Eboigbe  Abuja   –      Nigerian singer, Tiwa Savage has become the first Nigerian female artist to win the MTV Europe Music Awards (MTV EMAs) in the Best African Act category. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Afro-pop singer snatched the record-breaking award at the 2018 MTV EMAs held on Sunday at the Bilbao Exhibition Center, Bilbao, Spain with several music stars across the world in attendance. The African act category, in 2005, was infused into the MTV EMA to enhance musical alliances across borders, and promote cultural integrations. NAN reports that until Tiwa’s win, three Nigerians had taken the award home including 2Baba in 2005, D’banj in 2007 and 2012; and Davido in 2017. In 2018, Tiwa was nominated alongside fellow Nigerian act, David Adeleke, aka Davido; South Africa’s Distruction Boyz and Shekinah; Kenya’s Nyashinski and Fally Ipupa from the DRC. Celebrating the award, Tiwa took to her Instagram page @tiwasavage to dedicate the win to African women and aspiring young girls. She said, “Almighty God, you are so faithful. My savage soldiers did it for me. “You have stuck with me through the roller coasters. Thank you. To my amazing team, this is just the beginning. African women, this is for us. “I have been through a lot but I have kept my head up and weathered the storm because I know some little girl somewhere is dreaming like I did,” Tiwa said. She signed a recording contract with Mavin Records in 2012 and currently has a songwriting deal with Sony/ATV Music Publishing. The mother of one also signed a management and publishing deal with Roc Nation in June 2016. However, the biggest winner at the awards night was the Cuban-American singer Camila Cabello. She scooped four awards, winning “Best Song,” “Best Artist,” “Best Video” and “Best U.S. Act” in a show that featured a stellar performance from Janet Jackson. Cabello, 21, who already led the pack at the MTV Video Music Awards in August, urged her fans in the United States to vote in the 2018 midterm elections as she walked the red carpet in the northern Spanish city of Bilbao, Reuters reported. The singer, who rose to fame as a member of the girl group “Fifth Harmony,” formed on the U.S. edition of the X-Factor, said she relished being seen as a role model. “I feel like the message for me has always been just like do what makes you happy, even if it’s scary, it’s worth it to take the risk because your happiness is your responsibility,” Cabello said. “That’s always been my message and I talk about it a lot but I feel like it’s a good message. And yes, very important, go vote!” she said. Here’s the full list of 2018 MTV EMA winners: BEST ARTIST
Camila Cabello BEST VIDEO
Camila Cabello – “Havana” ft. Young Thug BEST SONG
Camila Cabello – “Havana” ft. Young Thug BEST POP
Dua Lipa BEST NEW
Cardi B BEST LOOK
Nicki Minaj BEST HIP-HOP
Nicki Minaj BEST LIVE
Shawn Mendes BEST ROCK
5 Seconds of Summer BEST ALTERNATIVE
Panic! At The Disco BEST ELECTRONIC
Marshmello BIGGEST FANS
BTS BEST WORLD STAGE
Alessia Cara, MTV Spotlight at Hyperplay, Singapore 2018 BEST PUSH
Grace VanderWaal (December 2017) BEST US ACT (WORLDWIDE ACT*)
Camila Cabello