By Monday Ijeh  Abuja   –     Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SSAP-SDGs) has called for collective responsibilities to curb the menace of improper plastic disposal in the country. Orelope-Adefulire, in a statement signed  by her Media Assistant, Mr Desmond Utomwen on Tuesday in Abuja to commemorate the 2018 World Environment Day (WED) with the theme “Beat Plastic Pollution”. The aide said that the improper disposal of plastic wastes had become worrisome and resulted in  pollution, not only in Nigeria but across the world. According to her, the UN report has shown that every year, 500 billion plastic bags are used around the world; 13 million tonnes of plastic leak into the ocean. She said the report had revealed that 17 million barrels of oil are used on plastic production; 100,000 marine animals are killed by plastics;. Eighty-three per cent of tap water are found to contain plastic particles. Orelope-Adefulire said the situation was alarming and dangerous to the environment. “It is impacting the ocean, which is the lungs of our planet, providing most of the oxygen we breathe, major source of food and medicines and a critical part of the biosphere. “There is need for the public to help beat plastic pollution by switching to materials that are easily reusable  ,” the statement quoted the presidential aide as saying. According to her, as the planet continues to grow relentlessly in population, a corresponding growth in waste products should also be expected. She advocated for continuous recycling of plastic waste as a method to deal responsibly with the plastic problem. Orelope-Adefulire said the recycling was to separate waste products into two major categories, Biodegradable and Non-biodegradable. She added that, plastic constitutes a larger part of the non-biodegradable waste component. NAN reports that June 5, every year is WED. The day is the UN’s principal vehicle for encouraging awareness and action for the protection of our environment. First held in 1974, it has been a flagship campaign for raising awareness on emerging environmental issues from marine pollution, human overpopulation, and global warming, to sustainable consumption and wildlife crime. WED has grown to become a global platform for public outreach, with participation from over 143 countries annually. Each year, WED has a new theme that major corporations, NGOs, communities, governments and celebrities worldwide adopt to advocate environmental causes.