…Says He’s Disappointment Over State of Affairs in the Country  By Chibuike Nwabuko  Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has visited ex-president, Dr Goodluck Jonathan at his Otuoke country home, with both leaders expressing confidence that the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has the strength and structure to get back to Aso Rock in 2019.  Both leaders stated this on Wednesday while speaking
with newsmen as the ex-President welcomed Abubakar to his house in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State.  Speaking on the chances of PDP returning to power at the federal level, Jonathan noted that the party is getting stronger, affirming that PDP is now better poised to win the 2019 Presidential election.  He said further: “Yes, we had some issues in 2015. But as you know politics is a very dynamic business. I believe PDP is coming back and getting stronger. Even though we are in the opposition with fewer Governors, PDP is still the strongest and largest party.”  Dr. Jonathan said he was pleased that the former Vice President
(Atiku) who came to Bayelsa to commission State Government projects was able to pay him a visit. He added that he had enjoyed a long relationship with Atiku, beginning from when he was a Deputy Governor in Bayelsa State.  In the same vein, former Vice President Atiku insisted that only the PDP has the strength and structure to win the Presidential election and return to Aso Rock in 2019. His words: “It is actually the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) that has the strength and structure to get back to Aso Rock. There is no other party that has the structure and strength like the PDP. Without PDP, APC should not have been in Aso Rock.”  While expressing his disappointment with the state of affairs in the country, Atiku raised several posers, saying: “Have we ever had this rate of unemployment and poverty in Nigeria? Have we ever had five sets of exchange rate before in this country? Have we ever had so much insecurity like this before? No! Have we ever been this divided before in this country? No!”  Atiku pointed out that his presence in former President Jonathan’s house had nothing to do with the forthcoming 2019 elections, adding that he only came to pay his respects to the former President while on a visit to Bayelsa State. “I cannot visit Yenagoa in Bayelsa State without coming to see the former President,” he said.