By Olayinka Olawale  Lagos   –    The Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), has urged parents to start registering their children in primary one for the 2018/2019 academic session as government was exploring strategies to construct new schools. Dr Ganiyu Sopeyin, the SUBEB’s Executive Chairman told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Lagos that the enrolment was free for children aged six years. Sopeyin spoke on the need for parents and guardians to show interest in the registration and take their children to schools in their neighbourhood. He said the government was exploring strategies to construct new schools and expand facilities in the existing ones to enhance access to education. “We have made sure that all our schools are within and nearest to the community to ensure the safety of our children. “Parents should take advantage of this registration opportunity and enrol their children in public schools. “We all know that it is an educated child that will grow up to develop the country. “This registration is free and open to children born from 2012 to date,’’ he said. Sopeyin said the Lagos State Government was working out modalities to expand schools to accommodate the increasing number of children by taking ownership of those built by community development associations. He said that government was encouraging communities that had established schools to hand them over to the government for better management and expansion. “We are aware that communities are establishing schools in our state. “We are taking over the schools because these are ways to expand our schools apart from building more classrooms in the existing ones. “Definitely, the government wishes to establish more schools but there are no vacant lands in the urban area. “But we are increasing classrooms in existing schools. On security in schools, the SUBEB boss said that government was doubling security in its schools across the state to ensure the safety of the pupils. He also said that government had started deploying men of the “Neighbourhood Watch’’ to schools to guard the gates. “Government is strengthening security measures to ensure that schools are safe. “We are also educating parents, school management committees and organising training on how to secure our pupils and teachers in schools,’’ Sopeyin said.