… Says No Concrete Steps by APC Administration to Strengthen and Fortify Security Architecture in Troubled Areas … Maintains that Should APC-led FG Deploy Same Energy and Resources Used in Fighting Perceived Opponents Towards Fighting marauders, Security Challenge Would Have Phased Out … Urges APC Govt to Come Out Clear on what it Stands to Gain by Allowing killings and bloodletting to Fester By Chibuike Nwabuko  Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has reacted to the Killings of over a hundred innocent Nigerians in communities in Plateau state informing that the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari to address and bring to book the perpetrators of killings and bloodletting in various parts of the country that is emboldening insurgents and marauders to further attack and murder defenseless Nigerians. The party expressed worry that no concrete steps have been taken by the APC-led administration to strengthen and fortify the security architecture in the troubled areas. “If the Federal Government had channeled the same energy and resources they have deployed to fighting perceived opponents towards fighting marauders and insurgents, the security challenge facing the country would not have been as devastating as we have in our nation today”, PDP said in a statement. PDP therefore urged APC and its government to come out clear on what they stand to gain by allowing these killings and bloodletting to fester. The statement reads: “The PDP decries the gruesome killing of over a hundred innocent Nigerians in communities in Plateau state by marauders on Sunday. The party regrets that if President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) had adhered to wise counsel by the PDP and Nigerians, such killings would have been averted. PDP insists that President Buhari’s failure to address and bring to book, the perpetrators of killings and bloodletting in various parts of the country is emboldening insurgents and marauders to further attack and murder defenseless Nigerians. The Party said that “It is most disheartening that compatriots are being killed daily because those saddled with the responsibility of safeguarding lives, care less about the wellbeing and safety of the people, as they focus only on their ill-fated 2019 re-election bid.” “Even when the Zamfara State governor, Abdul-aziz Yari cried out that he was overwhelmed by the spate of insecurity and killings, the Federal Government gave him an ineffectual response laced with their trite blame game, the statement added. The party urged Nigerians to note that since the escalation of killings and bloodletting in various parts of the country, particularly in Plateau, Benue, Taraba, Kogi, Adamawa, Yobe, Borno, Zamfara, Kaduna and other states, no concrete steps have been taken by the APC administration to strengthen and fortify the security architecture in the troubled areas. According to the statement: “Instead, what we are witnessing are inactions, impotent assurances and blame games that have continued to compromise security in the areas thereby creating opening for marauders to continue to ravage our people. “In fact, if the APC and its Federal Government had channeled the same energy and resources they have deployed to fighting perceived opponents towards fighting marauders and insurgents, the security challenge would not have been as devastating as we have in our nation today. “We now find ourselves in a situation where government attach no value to the lives of Nigerians so much so that top security officials flout presidential orders and even abandon their security duties in troubled areas while the President, as the commander-in-Chief, takes no strong steps to reorder his parade.” The PDP particularly agrees with Nigerians that if the over 7,000 security personnel, police surveillance helicopters and Armoured Personnel Carriers were not withdrawn from their primary security duties and drafted to be part of the APC national convention, the marauders would not have had a field day in this Plateau attack. Furthermore, the PDP called on the APC and its government to come out clear on what they stand to gain by allowing these killings and bloodletting to fester, as if the lives of our citizens have become worthless. Finally, while the PDP commiserates with the families of the victims of the attack, we totally reject these killings and demand an immediate concrete step to get to the root of the matter and end this bloodletting in our land. 