ABUJA (Sundiata Post) If you’re a business man and you allow your customers pay through POS, be on alert. Watch out.
I just left a fuel station where an attendant is inconsolable. He sold fuel worth N9,000 to a Yahoo boy. The fellow paid via POS. An alert in that sum hit his phone and the conman disappeared. Later, the alert turned out to be false. The attendant is going to repay the money. He’s weeping. Just recently, a Chinese factory in Badore sold goods worth N17million to a customer who came through an old staff. The customer paid through bank transfer. The alert hit the Chinese man’s phone. It was a Saturday and the staff helped the customer evacuate the goods, under a special arrangement, on Sunday. By Monday when the Chinese called his account’s officer, there was no money. The staff who sold the goods had a party Sunday afternoon and by the Monday, he had vanished. He’s Ghananian, by the way. Last week, a boy sold half of the choice wears in his oga’s boutique to Yahoo boys. They paid through POS. He got the alert and was excited. When his boss returned, there was no money. Meanwhile, the Yahoo boys came in an exotic Mercedes Benz saden. So, the poor boy thought he had “rich customers” and went on selling spree while the conmen went on buying spree that turned out to be looting spree. Cases of such incidents are reported daily. It’s the odd side of our cashless policy. And folks had better watch out. Government must rise to the occasion and stop the spread of this fraud before the entire cashless policy is rubbished. Yahoo Boys and girls are everywhere. The number keeps rising daily. There are no jobs. Man must wak. And in a country where there are no provisions for the unemployed, where virtues of hardwork are not recognised and rewarded, crime holds sway. Our leaders who engage in obscene display of wealth don’t help matters. Our pastors who preach prosperity and see visions and prophesies don’t help matters. The society is doomed. Watch out when you’re paid through POS. *Source: Facebook