Adedeji Egbebi ‎Ado-Ekiti –  Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo on Tuesday, led creme de la creme in the All Progressives Congress, (APC) to Ekiti to kick start the campaign for the candidate of the party in the July 14 gubernatorial election, Dr Kayode Fayemi. Addressing the crowd at the Oluyemi Kayode stadium, Ado-Ekiti, venue of the mega rally, the Vice President charged all Ekiti indigenes to vote out the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) government in the state and vote for the APC. “It is time to bring to an end, the government of the PDP and vote for the APC and our candidate, Dr Kayode Fayemi in the July 14 governorship election. “With APC in government, era of sufferings in Ekiti is over, do not try to give the PDP another chance, we shall provide adequate security before, during and after the election to guarantee your safety. “Ekiti is about to experience a new progress‎ and development, but if Ekiti people wish to benefit from the progressives blessings, let everybody vote for Fayemi,”he said. The National Chairman of APC, Chief Odigie Oyegun, appealed to all Ekiti indigenes and party members to ensure that they vote out the Ayo Fayose-led PDP administration in Ekiti. He said Fayemi was the only candidate in the forthcoming gubernatorial election ‎that could deliver the people from hardship and suffering. “I wish to appeal to all Ekiti people that APC is only party that can change your sufferings to abundant blessings and progress. “We are counting on Ekiti people to vote for Kayode Fayemi to change the lives of the civil servants and pensioners,”he said. The National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, charged all Ekiti indigenes to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) and give the administration of Gov. Fayose a red card. “Though, I did not register in Ekiti, but I have my voter card, I want to appeal to all Ekiti indigenes to collect their PVC and vote for Fayemi. ” We are sure that Ekiti people are wise and intelligent, and they want a better life, but anybody who desire a good life must take steps to improve his or her lifestyle. ” I want to encourage you to vote for Kayode Fayemi, because we have modify him, he is now smart, intelligent and ready to serve Ekiti people better,”he said. The mega rally was attended by Southwest Governor’s and dignitaries including; ‎Abiola Ajimobi, (Oyo), Ibukunle Amosun, (Ogun) Rauf Aregbesola; (Osun) and Alhaji Kassim Shettima of Borno state. Others are ; Yahaya Bello, (Kogi); former Gov. of Edo state, Comrade Adams Oshiomole; Ondo state Governor, Barr. Rotimi Akeredolu; Alhaji Ahmed Abdulfatai, (Kwara) Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Alhaji Mustapha Boss ; and Deputy Chairman of APC South West, Chief Pius Akinyelure, among other notable party chieftains.  (NAN)