(Sundiata Post) – The Director General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Dakuku Peterside has stressed the importance of human factor to successful shipping, stating that it is one of the most important elements in achieving competitive edge as well as safety in the maritime industry. Peterside made this known while addressing participants at the Business AFRICA meeting, at the ongoing 107th session of International Labour Organisation, ILO, conference, in Geneva, Switzerland, where consideration for the review of Maritime Labour Convention, MLC, 2006 would be made. The DG said, “The industry must partner with workers to develop a strategy that will contribute to constant development of Human Resources in the sector. As such, investment in workforce remains a sure way to guarantee success of firms and boost profitability”. According to him, “Employee is the most critical factor that determines the success of a firm. This is quite imperative in the Maritime industry that is capital intensive and where safety is paramount, So constant training, development as well as welfare of workforce must be taken seriously“. Peterside further urged AFRICAN businessmen to pay great attention to welfare of workers, in order to be able to compete favourably in the international market, adding that the maritime industry in particular could play greater role in economic growth of third world countries, if the right investment is made in the sector. The NIMASA boss commended ILO for the review of Maritime Labour Convention, MLC 2006. He advised that considerations should be given to peculiarities of different geopolitical areas of the world in the amendments process, adding that after 10 years, the MLC 2006 ought to be reviewed to meet the challenges of emerging trends. It should be noted that MLC is an International Labour Organisation convention established in 2006, as the fourth pillar of international maritime law and embodies all up-to-date standards of existing international maritime labour Conventions and Recommendations, as well as fundamental principles found in other international labour Conventions. The convention entered into force on August 20, 2013, one year after registering 30 ratifications of countries representing over 33 per cent of the world gross tonnage of ships. As of August 2017, the convention has been ratified by 84 States representing over 89 per cent of global shipping.