By Deji Abdulwahab Abuja –   The reuse of plastics through environmental creative arts will assist in the efforts to reduce plastic pollution in the country, Mrs Rebecca Mamven, the Assistant Director, Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) has said. Mamven said this in Abuja on Monday at the Secondary School Competition on Creative Arts on ‘Beat Plastic Pollution’, organised to commemorate the 2018 World Environment Day (WED). World Environmental Day with the theme: `Beat Plastic Pollution,’ would be celebrated on June 5. “From what I have seen, it can go a long way in reducing plastics, especially coming from young ones in secondary schools for them to use plastics to create things like even a book shelve, chair and map using nylon. “It will also go a long way if we can have our young ones thinking in that line that what we have we can reuse it. “It will reduce the plastic pollution that we find in our waste dump, rivers and ocean,’’ Mamven said. She said that the AEPB was planning to engage the producers of plastics such as Nestle, Coca Cola and others to device means of using plastics that were degradable to support the efforts to reduce the plastics in the country. Mamven, who said that AEBP had been donating waste bins to schools, barracks and police stations, said that the board would address the inadequate of waste bins in schools in the FCT. Vincent Davies, a student of Model Secondary School, Maitama, said that indiscriminate dumping of used nylon and plastics had been rampant on the school premises. Davies called for the erection of waste bin stands to promote healthy environment. Onah Chidiebere, a student of Government Secondary School, Wuse Zone 3, Abuja, urged traders to use degradable material to package their products instead of nylons. Chidiebere added that leaf could decompose and be turned into manure to grow trees and plants. Oyedepo Joshua, a student of Government Science and Technical College, Garki, who used plastic bottles to create a chair, said that the reuse of plastics would assist in the efforts to address plastic pollution in the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that five secondary schools participated in the Secondary School Competition on Creative Arts on ‘Beat Plastic Pollution,’ while displaying their plastics oriented arts. The arts include book shelve, chair, kitchen storage case, pencils case, cup, lamps and bags using indomie sachets. (NAN)