By Perpetua Onuegbu  Abuja  –     Mr Bisi Adegbuyi, the Postmaster-General, Nigeria Postal Service (NIPOST) on Tuesday assured that the service was poised to position Nigeria’s postal system for effective and faster last mile delivery services. Adegbuyi said this during the inauguration of the Last Mile Delivery Project and unveiling of 47 new motorcycles on Tuesday in Abuja. The consignments are 30 conventional bikes and 17 Express Mail Service (EMS) bikes aimed at effective delivery of parcels and packages to customers and clients of the post. He said with the introduction of its last mile delivery bikes, the organisation was ready to collaborate with other e-commerce marketers in the country. “We have gone to this last mile delivery, particularly because the e-commerce ecosystem is exponentially growing; people buy lots of stuffs items online. “All the e-commerce giants in Nigeria recognise the fact that NIPOST with its reach, network and experience, it is better placed to carry out the assignment of delivery for them because about 30 per cent of their profit goes to delivery cost. “So if you take that off their shoulders, they will be happy, therefore, the importance of last mile delivery cannot be over emphasised. “We are not in competition, we are into cooperation and collaboration therefore I am very happy that this has happened. “You know Nigeria is a massive place, we will do it in phases we have been to Lagos zone; this is Abuja zone, we are still going to other places.’’ Adegbuyi said any postal administration in the world not ready to leverage on existing and evolving technology would be left behind adding that NIPOST could not afford to be left behind. “That’s why we are doing everything humanly possible, don’t forget our competitors are there; we know them, they know us, but the advantage we have is the reach. “We are everywhere all over Nigeria and indeed they are always willing to get us to do the last mile delivery for them. He, however, said the last mile would not be effective if appropriate addressing system was not put in place. NIPOST boss however noted that the vice president, who is the Chairman of the National Addressing Council, would be inaugurating the digital addressing system soon. Dr Mark Ogba, EMS Deputy Zonal Manager, Abuja Zone, said the delivery officers had been yearning for the bikes for long. “They need machines that are in good conditions for them to be able to go to where they want to go to. “The problem we have been having was operational breakdown of motorcycles here and there. “But now that we have motorcycles readily available and the last mile delivery delay is not there anymore, the delivery officers are going to give 100 per cent commitment to the work. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that NIPOST had also delivered 92 bikes to the Lagos zone for its last mile delivery.