By Michael Shaibu Abuja –  The Speaker of the House of Representatives,  Yakubu Dogara has called for science revolution to drive the nation’s economy.  Speaking at a public hearing on a  bill,  “Science and Technology”,  he described the bill as timely,  stating that it would bring about revolution in science and technology industry.  Dogara added: “The economic landscape of the world is undergoing remarkable change.”  He further reiterated that the bill is positioned to address Communication and Technology (ICT) agricultural research biotechnology, animal science among others, this brings development and diversification to Nigeria State and beyond.  “This means that recognized the place of science and technology and its integration in the scheme of things, is the master key to unlock this potential.”  Mr Speaker reassured Nigerians that the Committee on Science and technology at the National Assembly is committed to updating all relevance in the science and technology to engender the needed development of the sector.  More so, in his speech, he enjoined all stakeholders in science and technology both private and public sector to contribute their their quota for the development of the sectors.  Hon. Yakubu Dogara further stated that “there is a need to close the gap that existed between research and development, research centres and industries, research innovations and product diversifications, utilisations and funding if we must reap the benefits of science and technology.  The House Committee chairperson on Science and Technology, Hon Beni Lar said that “Research institutions, when adequately funded can spur and catalyze development and economic growth of any nation.  While she commended the effort of her colleagues, at the public hearing that,  the seven bills referred to the committee are all research and development based” .  Hon. Lar also noted that  for a long time Nigeria has depended on foreign countries due to failure to harness and develop her research institutions.  She disclosed that “National blindness and visual impairment survey conducted in 2002 by World Health Organization (WHO) revealed global magnitude of the causes of blindness which is more prevalence in the West African region”.  Therefore, it is imperative to develop science and technology to confront these challenges.  The Minister of science and technology commended the mover of the Bill and said,  “it came to solve many global challenges, adding that there can’t be any meaningful development in all sectors without science and technology.  The Representatives of the Ministry of Defence applauded the bills because of its importance to national security.  Beni Lar, the chairperson of the committee assured the members of the public of doing the needful and ensure that the bills are passed within the shortest time. 