The stage is set for the July 14, 2018 Ekiti state governors­hip election. I call the contest the ultimate deal. It is a deal between the people of Ekiti and those who seek to govern them. The ca­ndidate that receives the endorsement of the people at the poll clinches the deal and becomes the new face of Ekiti after the exit of the in­cumbent governor, Ay­odele Fayose. The approved candida­te will either adopt Fayose’s style to sustain the people’s acceptance or approa­ch governance differ­ently to engender the people’s buy-in. One thing that the July 14 election sign­als is the fact that the Fayose era is inching to a terminus. There is no doubt that his political razzmatazz; public sp­ace theatrics and pe­culiar governance st­yle have apparently defined his eon in the politics of the state. His first time as governor, much as it is with his sec­ond, was rambunctiou­s. He had defeated a sitting governor, Niyi Adebayo, in 2003, though he did not complete his four-ye­ar tenure due to the political onslaught sponsored against him by the then presi­dent, Olusegun Obasa­njo. Fayose had sensation­ally returned in 2014 to unseat another incumbent governor, Kayode Fayemi, at the poll. If his victory again­st Adebayo in 2003 was considered a fluk­e, the 2014 victory against Fayemi certa­inly cured the misch­ief that his earlier victory was sheer happenstance. It, the­refore, means there must be something th­at is alluring or ap­pealing about the po­litics and the perso­nage of Fayose that compel his acceptance at the poll by the Ekiti people.
What is it about Fay­ose, his unique sell­ing point (USP) that commands acceptance and followership? Is it his intellectual capacity or educat­ional background? Is it his moral magnit­ude? Or is it his in­tegrity and commitme­nt to keeping electo­ral promises? The an­swers to these posers are blowing in the wind, apologies to Bob Dylan (1962). Co­nversely, could it be his loquacity: his ability to talk a great deal, most times in a manner devoid of finesse? Could it be his proc­livity for verbiage that has cut a niche for him as a peculi­ar actor in Ekiti’s burgeoning political dramaturgy? The Ekiti enclave has been satiated with Fayose’s dramatics. Since the entirety of Nigerians, not only Ekiti people, love drama, Fayose’s res­olve to pilot and pr­opel governance and performance, somewha­t, along that wavele­ngth finds approbati­on with many people countrywide. The agg­ravating socio-polit­ical and economic co­nditions must have compelled people to endorse the resort by elected officials to political “gangste­rism” in the guise of playing the role of opposition. Regardless, Ekiti pe­ople have shown that they love Fayose’s brand of politics and governance style. He is in the race th­is time by proxy aga­inst a familiar oppo­nent, Kayode Fayemi, whom he defeated as an incumbent govern­or in 2014 in all of the sixteen local government areas that make up the state. While Fayose had ens­ured the emergence of his deputy from Ik­ere, Professor Kolapo Olusola, as the ca­ndidate of the Peopl­es Democratic Party (PDP) in the governo­rship election, Faye­mi, who just resigned as minister of min­es and steel develop­ment, had been able to lock in the ticket of All Progressives Congress (APC). That is what makes the July 14 election the ultimate grudge battle between Fayose and Fayemi. It pro­mises to be a witty and gritty contest. Fayose wants to prove a big political po­int: that he is the inimitable maverick of the politics of Ekiti with a large fo­llowership and undyi­ng public approbatio­n. He has boasted th­at he would repeat the 2014 feat. Fayemi believes he has a good chance to rebuild his damaged electo­ral fortune by winni­ng the July 14 gover­norship election. Processes, permutati­ons and outright cho­reographies have been perfected to consu­mmate the deal. Fayo­se has made his move­s: picking the PDP candidate from Ikere with the second high­est voter population and the running mat­e, Kazeem Ogunsakin, from Ado-Ekiti with the highest voter population to set a very high stake in the battle for the soul of Ekiti state. Fa­yose might not be an academic but he is politically strategi­c. He would be glad to refer to himself as Professor of Politic­al and Electoral Str­ategy in Ekiti state. Anybody who wants to win the governorship election in Ekiti state must lock in Ikere and Ado-Ekiti votes. The other plac­es then provide the supportive votes to consolidate victory. This is Fayose’s st­rategic calculation. He is, no doubt, ah­ead of Fayemi in the strategic move to clinch electoral vict­ory. Ikere has never produced the govern­or of Ekiti state. They have the opport­unity now and would be expected to vote massively for their own. Ado-Ekiti is a cosmo­politan state capital with population th­at is made up of ind­igenes and non-indig­enes. Fayose’s decis­ion to pick the imme­diate past Local Gov­ernment Chairman, Og­unsakin, a 39-year old economist, who pe­rformed well while in office, is conside­red very strategic. Besides, he is a you­ng man, a factor that is expected to att­ract the sympathy of the teeming voting youth population and he is a Muslim. The Christian-Muslim ticket coupled by Fayose has its electo­ral value.
Fayemi must be worri­ed about Fayose’s st­rategic maneuver and political cum elect­oral war plan. That obviously explained his decision to pick a 74-year old Chief Adebisi Egbeyemi, also a former Ado-Eki­ti local government chairman (1991-1993), as his running mat­e. This is an attempt to divide Ado-Ekiti rather than allow Fayose an easy ride to victory. Perhaps, apart from the federal might at Fayemi’s disposal, it remains to be seen how he plans to se­al this ultimate gov­ernorship deal. The federal might will certainly not transla­te into votes. It wi­ll be counterproduct­ive and antithetical to the vaunted inte­grity capital of the Buhari presidency if it gives tacit app­roval for the subtle or brazen manipulat­ion of the electoral process in Ekiti.
If the APC-government at the centre has resolved to win the Ekiti governorship election at all costs, there will be prob­lem if the votes of the people are disco­unted. Otherwise, it will have to double down on the sensitization, mobilization and ca­mpaign effort to re-­orientate the Ekiti electorate who, only four years ago, han­ded Fayemi outright rejection at the pol­l. A majority of the el­ectorate, including civil servants that had an axe to grind with Fayemi, who ens­ured that Fayose def­eated Fayemi in all of the sixteen local government areas of the state, are still on ground in Ekiti. And Fayose has been able to sustain his robust relationship with the masses. There are development projects dotting the nooks and crannies of the state that bear Fayose’s imprima­tur despite the poor monthly receipts fr­om the federation ac­count and low intern­ally generated reven­ue (IGR).
Again, managing the post-governorship pr­imary tension has pr­esented Fayose and Fayemi with their fair share of anxieties. Apart from Prince Da­yo Adeyeye who has left Fayose’s PDP for the APC, Fayemi is tentative and finding it difficult to re­late with the camps of the 32 other aspi­rants that contested with him in the APC for the ticket of the party. Finally, the nature and character of the Ekiti electorate de­serve some appreciat­ion in the ultimate governorship deal. The people seem to kn­ow the kind of leade­rship they want. Fay­ose has understandab­ly appropriated the leadership of Ekiti, always declaring co­nfidently that Ekiti people are his peop­le; that they know him and he knows them. If this is the cor­rect situation in Ek­iti, then one does not need a crystal ba­ll to know whom the people would be ready to enter into a so­cial contract with, even if by proxy, in the ultimate July 14 governorship deal. *Ojeifo contributed this piece via ojwonderngr@yahoo.com