By Peter Amine Jos –   The Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) on Saturday attributed the increasing number of widows, orphans and vulnerable children in the country to insecurity. Rev. Stephen Baba, the newly inaugurated ECWA President, made this known at his inauguration at the Church headquarters in Jos. Baba particularly alleged that the activities of insurgents and rampaging herdsmen, were responsible for the situation. “The population of persecuted Christians, widows, orphans and vulnerable children and the poor generally in our churches and mission fields has reached astronomical levels. Apart from natural causes and other socio-political factors like ethnic and tribal clashes, the murderous activities of insurgents and others have contributed greatly to the rise in the number of widows and orphans in many of our churches today,” he said. According to him, the peace that Nigeria desires to achieve will remain an illusion unless the objective is anchored on justice. The ECWA President called on government at all levels to ensure the dispensation of justice in the country. He averred that justice for all citizens irrespective of their religious, ethnic, political and social backgrounds would go a long way towards ensuring peace and progress in the country. He said that Leah Sharibu should be awarded a Nobel prize for remaining faithful to her religious beliefs even in the face of persecution. “Leah deserves a Nobel prize for her strength of spirit and courage in the midst of pain and suffering. “We are also still calling for intensified action by the Federal Government to secure the release of the remaining Chibok girls and of recent, Leah Sharibu, who is being held captive by Boko Haram. “We call on the international community to act on behalf of Leah Sharibu like they did for Malala Yousfzai. The the immediate past ECWA President, Rev. Jeremiah Gado, expressed appreciation to the ECWA Church for giving him “the foundation to build on in the last six years”. Gado said that in his six years as president, ECWA was able to establish a microfinance bank, inaugurate the ECWA Church in Togo, The Gambia, Chad, and Malawi. According to the cleric, the Church has established a television channel that will provide it with the platform to be viewed both locally and internationally, especially in U.S., Europe and other parts of Africa. (NAN)