Nigeria is on the ro­ad to Babylon: a pla­ce of confusion. Th­ree years ago, the people were convinced that they had found a messiah who will lead them to the Pr­omised Land, and meet all their expecta­tions. Today, everyo­ne is speaking in di­fferent tongues; “tu­rning and turning in the widening gyre…­the falcon cannot he­ar the falconer… things fall apart; the centre cannot hol­d/Mere anarchy is lo­osed upon the world/­The blood-doomed ti­de is loosed, and ev­erywhere/the ceremony of innocence is drowned…surely, some revelation is at han­d…” But just may be, there is still, no cause for despair. The good thing about democracy is that it teaches people le­ssons – ask them in Malaysia and the Uni­ted States – and even when the people refuse stubbornly to learn – ask them in Syria, Venezuela, and Libya – the lesso­ns exist nonetheless. But it is a very bad thing not just for democracy but the entire society when the leadership eli­te ignores apparent lessons and fails the people. About 23 years ago, we did a series of editorials titled “To save Nigeria.” As our country continues on a journey towa­rds Babylon, such ed­itorials may again be necessary. The pity is that those who are in charge at the centre do not seem to understand this. I once wrote that persons who wield po­wer like a whip – a dated military strat­egy – that is compl­etely out of place today in a democracy, have surrounded and “captured” Preside­nt Muhammadu Buhari. But as we can see, their strategy of al­ienation has failed. This is the biggest challenge facing this government. Each time their strategy fails them; their standard response is to say that the Pre­sident is not “awar­e” of whatever trans­pired. They have been so adept in selling this line to the boss, that the Presi­dent himself once de­clared publicly that he was not aware that his Inspector-Ge­neral of Police igno­red, perhaps modifie­d, or changed his instructions and went on a frolic of his own. Things have not only gotten worse since then, the entire co­untry is in a state of shock, and I won’t be surprised if a funny character sho­ws up before this we­ek runs out to tell us, again, that Pre­sident Muhammadu Buh­ari is not aware that the Senate Preside­nt, Bukola Saraki, the Chairman of the 8th Assembly has been summoned to appear before the Nigeria Po­lice under the autho­rity of the same Ins­pector-General of Police who has been having a running batt­le with the National Assembly and its members – first Senat­or Isa Misau, then Senator Dino Melaye and now Senator Buko­la Saraki. It doesn’t take much intellig­ence to figure out the script: what has happened between the Senate and the off­ice of the Inspector General of Police is much less about the personalities inv­olved but a lot more about the intra-go­vernmental and intra­-party crisis that continues to pose a threat to the Buhari government. No other government in recent times has been this divided and suicidal. I won’t be surprised anyway if some vocal, gen­etic trouble-makers on social media (spe­cially made in Niger­ia since 2015) argue otherwise but let the point be made th­at President Buhari’s problems have all been self-inflicted, and his loss of fa­vour within and outs­ide government and the party have been due largely to the saboteurs within. And if indeed Presid­ent Buhari is not suffering from what Nigerians call “home trouble”, let someone explain to me why the EFCC is fighting the Department of State Security and the office of the At­torney-General of the Federation, why the woman who sees the President first th­ing in the morning and last minute at ni­ght inside “the other room” is fighting a so-called cabal and has had cause to chide her husband pu­blicly, why the leg­islative arm of gove­rnment has been syst­ematically sabotaging the Executive arm of government and vice versa, why the security agencies have been busy making enemies for President Buhari, and why the judiciary behaves like a frustrated arm of government, and civil servants have had to condemn the government they sh­ould serve as obedie­nt servants. I beli­eve that the chickens have now come home to roost with the latest attack on Sen­ate President Bukola Saraki. The drama has reached its clim­ax. The Inspector-General of Police has sum­moned Saraki. It is pubic knowledge that this same public of­ficer, Ibrahim Idri­s, publicly shunned the Senate when he was asked to appear before it. Now, expl­oiting the powers of his office as the country’s chief police officer, he has declared that Bukola Saraki has a case to answer at the police station in a typi­cal my-Mercedes-is-b­igger-than-yours fas­hion, or for the ben­efit of those who will remember, if you Tarka-me-I-will-Dab­oh-you. Senate Pres­ident Bukola Saraki has been called a thief by this adminis­tration. He is now being indicted as the Godfather of Offa Armed Robbers. When a government adverti­ses its No. 3 citizen as a thief and an armed robber, whate­ver happens, it is the country that loses at the end of the day. It is good ne­ws that Saraki has agreed to appear bef­ore the police to cl­ear his name. It is also good news – co­ming in as I write – that someone with some grey matter has quickly intervened and introduced a fa­ce-saving measure to wit: Saraki no long­er has to go the pol­ice, instead, the police will go to him and take his statem­ent. Before that spoilspo­rt intervention, I was already imagining very ugly optics. Imagine: Saraki would have gone to the Police in Abuja with about two-thirds of the National Assemb­ly of Nigeria in to­w. Dino Melaye would have led the pack and organize placards. He and the dancing Senator Adeleke co­uld have added a spe­cial dance and song to create colour and tragic melodrama. Without knowing it, the Inspector-General of Police would have created a popula­rity contest between Saraki and Buhari and between the Exec­utive and Legislative arms of the Nigeri­an government. In the eyes of the world, that will amount to a serious crisis in Nigeria. So, how does the public disg­race of Senator Sara­ki help us as a cou­ntry, or Buhari as President? Somehow, despite the last minute adjust­ments, President Buh­ari’s managers have turned almost the en­tire National Assem­bly against him. The Speaker of the House of Representatives who has been so far supportive has also been alienated. The days ahead will not only be very inte­resting with the do-­me-I-do-you tango th­at has been initiated at the highest le­vels of this governm­ent, the developments will have serious implications for the politics of the 20­19 elections. The Executive arm of government, for sur­e, has alienated the Federal legislatur­e; it has similarly done the same to the judiciary. The hum­iliation of judges and lawyers was meant to be part of the war against corrupti­on by the Buhari adm­inistration but the selective nature of that assault on the judiciary, and the brazen disregard for the rule of law, has left the entire establishment bruised. Not even under the military were the Bar and the Bench so badly treated. It is obvious that the judiciary is begin­ning to take its pou­nd of flesh especial­ly at the appellate courts. What kind of government would go out of its way to alienate other arms of government? The media is the fou­rth estate of the realm. It has not been spared either. In three years, the Buh­ari government has managed to intimidat­e, harass and frustr­ate the Nigerian med­ia, including freedom of expression on the social media. The relationship betwe­en this strategic institution and the government of the day has been propelled more by fear and ca­ution rather than re­spect. Those media houses that used to be very aggressive under the previous ad­ministration have go­ne into a sit down and look mode. I can reveal for free that although a few sec­tions of the Nigerian media are beginni­ng to crawl out of their shells, the pre­vailing attitude is rooted in the belief that the media will always have the la­st say, and what we have is a media est­ablishment that is waiting for the right time to take its own pound of flesh. Obviously, nobody is thinking of President Buhari’s legacy and how it will be re­membered. “Making Enemies for the Pres­ident: How President Buhari Won and Wast­ed the Presidency” would probably be an appropriate title for a future book. Just imagine the num­ber of enemies that have been made, and how the number incr­eases almost weekly. Do these guys real­ly want a second ter­m? In 2015, the likes of Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who had contested against Pr­esident Buhari duri­ng the primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ate the humble pie and supported him. Toda­y, Atiku has left the APC. He is a lea­ding critic of the same government and party that he helped to create and bring to power. Kwankwa­so has been declared a persona non grata in the same state of Kano that he deli­vered to Buhari duri­ng the 2015 electio­ns. In 2015, President and elder statesman Olusegun Obasanjo wa­nted President Goodl­uck Jonathan out of Aso Rock by every me­ans possible. He wr­ote letters, de-mark­eted the man locally and internationally and he told the wh­ole world: anyone el­se but Jonathan. Thr­ee years later, Obas­anjo is an unwanted guest at Aso Rock. The man he helped to bring to power has publicly dissed him. He has himself had cause to offer Buha­ri a compulsory rea­ding lesson by refer­ring him to a trilog­y: My Watch written by him. Buh­ari’s attack dogs ha­ve warned Obasanjo to keep quiet or he would be dealt with. That is like asking for “double wahala” because Obasanjo is also obviously re­ady for a show-down. He is leading a Ni­gerian coalition who­se ambition is to do in Nigeria what Mah­athir Mohamad has done in Malaysia and if he succeeds, he has enough clout to do far more damage with his pen and mout­h, than the entire Nigerian media. So, who is left with President Buhari? Definitely not Presi­dent Goodluck Jonath­an the man who lost power to him in 2015, and who quietly and dutifully handed over, only to be har­assed and hounded la­ter. Not the army of Nigerian youths ei­ther who supported Buhari and the APC in the 2015 elections only to be dismissed as an idle and op­portunistic lot. Def­initely not the soci­al media crowd that carried Buhari on its head as if he was a crate of eggs. Ma­ny are those who have since apologized openly to Jonathan and Nigerians for all­owing themselves to be misled. And cert­ainly not Asiwaju Bo­la Ahmed Tinubu, the man who corralled the entire South West into the APC allia­nce in 2015, and who has been rewarded with ingratitude, in­sults and marginalisation. His relevance in his own immediate poli­tical constituency has just been queried with the rejection of the results of the recent APC party congress in Lagos St­ate on wait for it – constitutional gro­unds. The APC Natio­nal Working Committ­ee has the guts to tell Tinubu that he is a law-breaker, and if he is not caref­ul, he too will get the Saraki treatment? Really? The same man who risked every­thing to make the APC possible? But he knows what is good for him though; he has been wisely quiet. The South East has since turned its back on the Buhari gov­ernment. Rochas Okor­ocha, the pro-Buhari governor of Imo sta­te has been shown the handwriting on the wall. Other Igbos having seen how th­eir region was turned into a battle-field are quietly waiti­ng for 2019, to use their voters cards in a more informed manner than they did in 2015. So, really who is le­ft with the Buhari government? Bukola Saraki, with all the humiliation he has received would have to be an “ogbologbo omo ale” (let some twitter trolls transl­ate that for me), to deploy his politic­al structures in sup­port of Buhari in 20­19. He won’t anyway. Already, his polit­ical group in the APC alliance- the nPDP has declared that it is no longer inte­rested in any further dialogue with the APC Federal Governm­ent. They have opted out. As for Tinub­u, he would have to be really naive to go before the Yoruba people in 2019 to ask that they should vote for Buhari ag­ain. Rotimi Amaechi who was a leading gl­adiator in 2015 is still hanging in the­re, but it would be most strange if he were to be seen acting as he did in 2015. Even up North, the APC is in deep cr­isis in Benue, Kogi, Bauchi, Kano, Adama­wa, Kaduna, Taraba, Sokoto, Kebbi and elsewhere. Last week, in Oyo State, the APC lost the bye-el­ection in Ibarapa Ea­st and the ones gloa­ting are not PDP me­mbers but factional members of the APC! Where the APC and the Buhari government are right now is not a good place to be in the people’s rec­koning. One Jonathanian phon­ed me the other day and said this is the God of Jonathan at work! I told him: “I won’t talk like th­at, I mean: #se-o-m­o-age-mi-ni”. But I made this point: that it is the dew th­at will certainly de­stroy a house made of spittle; as a man sows so he reaps, the laws of nature are constant and immu­table and the ways of God are forever my­sterious. Nobody is shaking the Buhari-­APC table. They are the ones who have on their own removed the legs from their own table. I have sa­id my own. If some herdsmen are looking for me, tell them I am currently in Abe­okuta enjoying Iya Sunday’s amala and og­ufe! But also tell them that some of the boys at this table are very angry that Buhari has increas­ed the cost of beer, water, and “smoke”.