By Philomina Attah  Lafia,   –     A voluntary youth organisation, the Man O’ War, Nasarawa State chapter has pledged to work toward a free and peaceful general elections in 2019. Mr Joel Attah, the state commander of the organisation, said this at the end of a three-day camping in Lafia on Sunday. Attah said the organisation was committed to assisting the government and security agencies in dousing “unnecessary tension that could arise before, during and after the elections’’. This, he explained would be done mainly through public enlightenment and sensitisation campaigns targeting the youths, who were mostly used by selfish politicians to perpetrate election violence. “Now that the general elections are around the corner, we are looking at areas where we can help to ensure peaceful and credible elections. “We cannot fold our hands and see our society suffer from the activities of bad eggs among the youth. “Given an enabling environment, we can effectively deploy our influence, especially in the grassroots to maintain peace and order in the society,’’ he said. To this end, the commander emphasised the need for an effective collaborative platform between the Man O’ War and the government and other election stakeholders. “Our slogan is, ‘Build a man, build a community’. We will not relent in achieving this. “We will ensure that we groom the youth in our communities, and report those committing crimes to security agencies for proper handling,’’ he added. Attah noted that the organisation was also stepping up efforts at effective training of jobless youths to become self-reliant and better citizens in line with its objectives. He thanked the Nasarawa State Government for its assistance to the organisation, especially in the training of youth corps members during their orientation camps. He, however, appealed for expansion of the support to enable the Man O’ War to extend its services across the state. While noting that funding was a major challenge facing the group, Attah appealed to government at all levels, spirited individuals and organisations to assist the body in achieving its noble objectives. He said that the camp, which was the first in the state, was aimed at strengthening the organisation’s activities in addition to developing the capacities of youths in the state for nation building. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the three-day event tagged, “Building the Capacity of the Youth’’, brought together Man O’ War members from across the state, as the participants were trained in different areas of human endeavours.