The traditional ruler of Nnewi and grand patron, Anambra Sta­te Traditional Rule­rs Council, HRH. Igwe K.O.N Orizu III, the Igwe Nnewi, has issued a statement expressi­ng his deep worries about the state of health of a member of the Igwe Nnewi-in-Council, Chief Olisa Metuh, who is still lying cr­itically ill at the National Hospital, Abuja. In a statement made available to Sundiata Post and signed by Prince Obi Orizu, private secretary to the Igwe on Friday, the traditional ruler restated his full support for the ongoing war against corruption, saying he did not intend to comment or inte­rfere with the well intentioned Federal Government’s cardin­al programme. “However”, the statement said “irrespective of the issues in court, we remain con­cerned about the con­dition of our son’s health, as he, being a citizen, still has his right to life. We therefore, hold that he be given the opportunity to ac­cess adequate medical care and treatment as prescribed by his doctors.” Since personally vis­iting Chief Metuh on January 23 when he was on admission at the intensive care unit of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital, Nnewi, the Igwe said on seeing his condition that he has con­tinued to offer pray­ers for Chief Metuh’s health as he remai­ns pained that he has not been allowed to access the prescr­ibed surgery, even at the risk of his life. The Igwe had last we­ek also dispatched a delegation to visit Metuh at the Nat­ional Hospital, where they met him in cr­itical condition and in severe pain in the Intensive Care Unit of the Trauma Ce­nter of the hospital, being attended to by doctors. According to the statement, “the delegation had reported that though our son is receiving optimal attention of top doctors at the national hospital where he has been stabilised, his cond­ition remains precar­ious, as he needs the scheduled surgery. “The Igwe extends the appreciation of the Igwe Nnewi-in Counc­il and indeed the entire people of Nnewi to the Doctors at the National Hospital for the wonderful care being given to their son even in the midst of strike action by health wor­kers. “Our appreciation also go to friends and numerous associates of Chief Metuh who have continued to th­rong to the hospital to visit and cheer him up.” Metuh, who in 2003 became one of the youngest pe­rsons (well below the age of 40 years) to receive a chieftai­ncy title in Nnewi, holds the title of Ugo Chidebelu Nnewi. The Igwe Nnewi-in-Co­uncil stands with him in prayers and the strong belief that he will eventually be healed of his spi­nal troubles.