(Sundiata Post) — The duo of a first class electronics and telecommunications engineer, Dr. Kenneth Okereafor, and the chief executive officer, Wisdom Computer Technology, Mr. Francis Uzor, have joined the growing selected speakers faculty, at the 2018 Nigeria DigitalSENSE Forum series on Internet Governance for Development (IG4D) and Nigeria IPv6 Roundtable billed for Wednesday, June 6 in Lagos. According to the Executive Director, Operations at DigitalSENSE Africa Media, the organisers of NDSF series, Mrs. Nkemdilim Nweke, both Dr. Okereafor and Mr. Uzor would be addressing data protection and web entrepreneurship respectively alongside other speakers, at the forum slated for Cooperative Hall, Oshodi-Isolo Secretariat, Oshodi-Lagos. The 2018 edition being hosted in collaboration with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) with endorsement of the Federal Ministry of Communications, she said, would be presided over by the chief executive officer, Internet Exchange Point of Nigeria (IXPN) who doubles as chairman, IPv6 Council Nigeria, Mr. Muhammed Rudman. She noted that Dr. Okereafor, a columnist with ITRealms, a publication of DigitalSENSE Africa Media on Talking Biometrics, is an accomplished ICT professional and cybersecurity expert with over 20 years experiences in Enterprise ICT innovation management in private and public sector computing. He holds dual PhD degrees in Computer Science (Cybersecurity & Biometrics) and Management (ICT Administration and Governance) with a first class Electronic & Telecommunications Engineering background. He is a United Nations-trained Network Security Specialist and is proficient in Network Optimization, Data Protection, Biometric Systems and Digital Forensics. Equally, she said that pragmatic entrepreneur and chief executive officer of Enugu-based Wisdom Computer Technology, Mr. Francis Uzor, was an unanimous choice speaker on the sideline of ICT Entrepreneurship session. Uzor, she further said, has been the Business Development Manager and Co-Founder for Wizzyhub Technologies, an ICT based firm that founded the digital school software solution. He has authored two books including “Maximizing Life after Graduation” and “21 Computer Secretes” with tutorial CDs. The 2018 NDSF series is hosted in collaboration with the Nigerian Communications Commission, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Galaxy Backbone, Teledom International, IXPN, Computer Professional (Registration Council) of Nigeria (CPN), Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NIRA), among others.