By Temitope Salami Ijebu-Ode (Ogun) –   A communication expert, Mr Olalekan Ajia, has expressed concern on the viability of the ‘Not-Too-Young-To-Run’ Bill assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday. Ajia, a former Communication for Development Specialist with the United Nations spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Ijebu-Ode. According to him, a referendum of opinions by Nigerians should have been drawn to ascertain the law’s acceptability before its final passage. He said he was particularly wary about the gap in the law, concerning experience of candidates which he feared may be exploited politically. “As soon as someone reaches the age of maturity and as acquired some experience in life, he should be thrust gradually into positions of authority and responsibility. “There is no problem encouraging our young ones to come into leadership, but as the word leadership implies, it means you have the knowledge, experience and background to lead. “Ambition alone will not suffice. We must have a minimum template of what you have accomplished before you can be thrust into leadership position. “Someone who just left the university and has access to money and is being driven by ambition, such a person may not succeed. “My advice is that that law should be specific on experience,” Ajia said. Urging for an amendment, he called on the National Assembly to involve the citizens’ inputs through confabs and referendums. “There should be a mechanism for referendum to sample the opinions of the citizens. “It may not be an expansive or elaborate referendum, but it is important to consult various stakeholders through their own different platforms. “Psychiatric evaluation of prospective leaders is also key. How can you explain someone stealing billions he doesn’t need?” he said. Rev. Ehizua Imohimi, Lead Pastor, The Lifeway Church, Lagos, commended the tenacity of the advocates for the passage of the bill. He said that young people had a right to contest elections if they are able to prove their mettle to their constituents and display the maturity to lead. Imohimi, who is also a Board Member of the non-governmental organisation, Pan African Centre for Social Development and Accountability (PACSDA), called for a review of the electoral system. “It’s commendable that young people can gather and push for an amendment within our constitution, but at the same time we need to look at our electoral system of money politics. “Young people having right to contest positions is not all, but if they have financial capacity to contest election is the issue,” Imohimi said. On whether the experience clause will undermine the law, he dismissed such concerns while adding that youths have proved themselves at all levels. “Age does not determine experience as we already have a lot of young people running their own organisations. “Young people have done badly in government as well as old people, so I don’t think experience is a good enough argument. “We have seen democracy work, yes slowly, but surely. At least something was done. “It’s not perfect, but this should serve as encouragement in strengthening our democratic reforms. “A democracy where everyone is getting involved is a good way to go,” he said. (NAN)