By Omuboye Sukubo  Port Harcourt   –      Some parents and students from Newcross Exploration and Production Ltd. (NewcrossEP) host communities in Akuku-Toru and Degema Local Government Areas (LGA) of Rivers, have commended the company for its scholarship scheme. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the maiden test for the scholarships for secondary schools initiated by the oil company, took place at the the Government Secondary School, Borikiri in Port Harcourt on Tuesday. The beneficiaries totalling 80 students will be spread across its areas of operation with 50 slots for communities in Akuku-Toru LGA hosting Ekulama Oil fields, and 30 slots for communities hosting the Awoba Oil fieds in Degema LGA. Mrs Iselema Amachree, a native of Abissa community in Akuku-Toru LGA, told NAN in Port Harcourt that the scholarship was a relief for parents. Amachree said that she was satisfied with the process leading to the award of the scholarships. “I got the form for my child through my community cluster board, and you can see that the conduct of the test is very transparent. “There is nothing like malpractice here, the students are on their own facing the the questions before them. “I commend NewcrossEP for this because if your child is able to scale through, the scholarship will be a major relief for the parents,” she said. Mr Dakoru Sanki, a native Ke community in Degema LGA, also commended NewcrossEP for the transparency in the conduct of the test. Sanki, however, said that the chances were too limited and urged them to increase the slots for the host communities. “The process is transparent but I will want them to see how the students can know their scores at most one hour after the test to make it more transparent and credible. “But in all, I commend NewcrossEP for initiating the scholarship scheme to help parents in their area of operations,” he said. Miss Christy Alasia, a native of Soku community in Akuku-Toru LGA and a student of Federal Government Girls College, Abuloma, said the test was okay, and they were well spaced out in the hall. “It was somehow tough but it is okay, I will be happy to succeed because it will help my parents in my education,” she said. Mr Awoingo Amachree, a student from Abissa community said the test was free from cheating and was fair in all sense. “The English was easy for me but the mathematics was a bit tough. I thank NewcrossEP for the opportunity to write the test, I hope to make it to assist my parents,” he said. Mr Emmanuel Benebo, a secondary school student from Ke community in Degema LGA, also said that the conduct of the test was satisfactory. Benebo said that they were on their own in the hall as there was no form of assistance from anybody. “I am going to succeed, I need the scholarship to help my parents in training me,” he said.