By Yemi Adeleye Lagos –  An NGO, Centre for Advancement of People’s Rights (CAPRI), on Wednesday in Lagos, urged the political class to eschew politics of bitterness in the interest of the people and democracy. Mr Olumuyiwa Kushimo, the Executive Director of CAPRI, made the appeal at a public awareness programme tagged “Village Squares Discussion” with the theme “People’s Rights and Crime Prevention”. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was held in conjunction with the Foundation for Justice and Rehabilitation of Prisoners — an NGO,  and the traditional ruler of Ojokoro, Oba Rilwan Taiwo. Kushimo said that the programme was organised following the high rate of crime, with the attendant violation of human rights by law enforcement agents, among others. He said: “Democratic transitory programme is known throughout the world as the mechanism that allows for peaceful removal of government from power and retention of such power. “The elected officers of various levels of government are expected to internalise that political power belongs to the people. We enjoin all to eschew politics of bitterness in the interest of the people and democracy. “Democracy is equated with accountability. It is the participation of the powerless and the accountability of the powerful.” The director urged the electorate not to be distracted with the recent party defections of politicians, but rather focus on how well they have delivered dividends of democracy. He urged the Federal Government to respect the will and fundamental human rights of the people as well as to play party politics fairly and according to norms. According to him, there have been defections of politicians from one party to another in the time past, and such will not end but continue. He said that the recent defections and attendant crisis were unnecessary. Kushimo urged citizens to report every case of abuse of rights, harassment and victimisation, domestic violence and undue discrimination against persons with disabilities. The director commended the Lagos State Police Commissioner, Mr Imohimi Edgar, for his commitment toward professional conduct of the police, urging the public to support them. He also commended Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode for the dividends of democracy to the citizens in the area of infrastructure, economy and security, urging him to do more on healthcare. Kushimo also advised qualified adults to participate in the ongoing Continuous Voters Registration and obtain Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to exercise their civic responsibility in 2019 elections. Mr Olumuyiwa Adebanjo, a legal practitioner, said it was the responsibility of the Police to prevent infringement of other people’s rights. Adebanjo called for community policing to create awareness of crimes and prevent them in order to complement the work of the conventional police. “The root of most crimes is economic, so government will be doing a lot to limit crimes if jobs are created and the economy improved. Community has a lot to do on crime prevention. “Police can only act to the extent of the information and intelligence available to them. Most of the time, the information comes from the community,” he said. Another activist, Mr Declan Iheikare, Convener, Concern Human Rights, who frowned at ignorance of members of the society about their rights, urged the police to be careful in the discharge of their responsibilities. ASP Kolawole Adeleke, the Operations Officer, Ijaiye Ojokoro Police Station, said: “Nigerians don’t know their rights, and when they know, they don’t know how to fight for it. People need to cry when their rights are infringed upon. “People should create scene, speak out if any police officer demands money for bail. If you don’t speak, no one will speak for you. Talk, you will not die.” Adeleke called for youth empowerment and public awareness against crimes and drug abuse.  (NAN)