By Bolaji Buhari Lagos –  Some residents of Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos on Thursday appealed to the state government to construct more inner-city roads in the area. The residents made the appeal at the stakeholders meeting of Alimosho 1 state Constituency in Ipaja area of Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting, an interactive platform between constituents and their representatives in the state assembly,was held simultaneously in all the 40 constituencies . Mr Bisi Yusuf,(Alimosho 1) hosted his constituents at one of the meetings in Alimosho with the theme”Towards a Peaceful and Credible election “. Mr Abiodun Coker, Community Development Committee(CDC) Chairman in Ayobo, said many roads in the area were still in bad shape. He said there was the need to rehabilitate the bad roads and construct new ones to allow easy movement of people and goods in the area. “A major problem in Ayobo is roads. The roads are not there and the existing ones are in terrible shape. “While we appreciate government’s intervention on some roads like Ayobo-Ayetoro road, Ayobo-Ishefun road and so on, we appeal for intervention in other roads begging for attention. “Ayobo is a border community to communities in Ogun State; the rehabilitation of roads and opening up of new ones will facilitate easy movement of people,” the lawmaker said. He appealed to Gov. Akinmunmi Ambode to give priority attention to the rehabilitation of Amule-Asipa road, Gbadamosi-Opesa road, and Aina Obembe road, in view of the high number of people and vehicles that use the road. Coker also urged the state government to fulfil the promise of a fish farm estate in the area, to create employment opportunities. Also speaking ,CDC Chairman, Agbado Oke-Odo Local Development Area, Mr Adebayo Alaye, commended the state government for the construction and rehabilitation of 21 inner-city roads and a link bridge in the area. He said the roads had opened up the area and had made residents to greatly feel the impact of the Ambode administration. Alaye, however, said that there were many roads begging for attention in the area, and appealed for intervention of the state government. “Our people appreciate the great work of our house governor, especially with the delivery of 21 roads and a bridge in Agbado-Oke Odo. “But it is not yet comfort for most residents still find it difficult to move around due to many bad roads in the area. “Just like the government had intervened on the previous ones, we appeal for response to the the remaining ones,” he said. Also speaking, Mrs Bola Banjoko, a resident of Abesan Estate, Ipaja called on government to fix many pot-holes in the estate. She said the pot-holes had made movement of vehicles a nightmare and had caused a number of accidents. “Also, the government should help to light up roads in the estate. “Darkness always envelopes the estate in the evenings, and hoodlums, under the cloak of darkness, harass and rob residents. “We will appreciate if the government can help us,” she said. Mr Vincent Chukwuma , a resident of Alimosho, urged the government to put Tayo Kehinde Street in good shape. “The street has been in bad shape for 25years. We appeal to the government to intervene on the road to ease movement of residents,” he said. Yusuf, responding to the requests, said he had taken note of all of the issues and would reach out to the state governor for the necessary intervention. He said Alimosho had witnessed accelerated development since he was elected to represent the area. The lawmaker pointed to the delivery of roads in Agbado-Oke and Ayobo-Ipaja by government as some of the dividends of his representation. He said he had organised so many programmes that had impacted on lives of people in the area. “We thank God for what we have been able to do in Alimosho in the last seven years; by God grace, we will do more with your support,” he said. Yusuf said the success of the 2019 elections was a task not only for the electoral commission and security agencies, but everyone. The lawmaker urged constituents to shun violence before, during and after the election. He urged them to obtain their PVCs and elect leaders of their choice. The lawmaker said residents should participate in the electoral process and mobilise others to do so. (NAN)