By Ismaila Chafe Daura(Katsina) –  President Muhammadu Buhari says it is heart-warming that more Nigerians are appreciative of the implementation of policies and projects of the Federal Government aimed at improving the standard of living in the country. President Buhari stated this when he received the leadership of Kano Traders Association led by Alhaji Ahmed Sani, Chairman of Kanti Kwari Traders Association on Friday in Daura, Katsina State. President Buhari pledged that his administration would not relent in doing the necessary,  to create jobs, expand trade and encourage greater productivity. The President told members of the business community that under the Government Enterprises and Empowerment Programme (GEEP) and the CBN Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), more traders and farmers had expanded their trade and increased food production. He said that the GEEP had provided free interest loans to farmers while the N40 billion ABP targets rice farmers across the country to boost their production. President Buhari noted some of the policies and projects were misconstrued by some critics at the beginning of this administration but with “steady and rigorous implementation they have realised that these interventions are very beneficial for the development of the country.’’ The President promised to look into the concerns of the traders on the GEEP programme as well as the influx and dominance of foreigners in the retail sector. Sani  commended the President for reviving the $2.8 billon  Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline, which was abandoned by the previous administration due to corruption and mismanagement. The market leader also applauded the Buhari administration for the ongoing works at river ports in Baro, Niger State, Lokoja, Kogi State and Oguta in Imo State which were abandoned for about a decade but would now be completed before May 2019. ‘‘It is also another gesture of Mr. President in fulfilling his promise to end fuel problem in Nigeria by signing the Memorandum of Understanding for the establishment of a new 150,000 barrels per day refinery in Katsina State,’’ Sani said. (NAN)