By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu –   The Vice-Chancellor,University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Prof. Chukwuma Ozumba, has lauded the UNN 1997 Class of Doctors for building a modern students’ refectory worth N20 million for the institution. Ozumba gave the commendation during the re-union of doctors at the College of Medicine, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Ituku-Ozalla, near Enugu, on Saturday. He also applauded them for the award of scholarship to three brilliant medical students of the institution. The vice chancellor said that the institution had witnessed massive improvement in infrastructure, staff training and research since his appointment more than four years ago. He said that his administration working n line with the dream of the founding father of UNN, Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe, to ensure that the citadel of learning becomes the best in the continent. “The 1997 class of medical doctors is the first to build a structure in the university.” He said this was made possible due to the commitment of the members led by Dr George Ugwu, the Dean, Student Affairs at the institution’s College of Medicine. “Ugwu has remained a brilliant and enterprising young man endowed with an incredible leadership quality.’’ In an address, Ugwu, who was also the spokesman for the group, said that the 1997 Class of medical doctors had set out to make history and also impact positively on the society. He noted that the construction of a modern students’ refectory and the award of scholarship to three medical students were just the beginning of many good things to come. Ugwu explained that the group embarked on the two projects as their contribution, to join the vice-chancellor in expanding the frontiers of development of the UNN. “We are happy that UNN has been ranked first in the South-East. “While the medical school has gone international, following the recent endorsement of collaboration with the famous Galilee Medical College in Israel,’’ he said. In a joint statement, the Chairman of the Re-Union Committee, Dr Kelechi Okoli, and Chairman, Local Organising Committee, Dr Anazo Madu, commended the UNN administration for the progress recorded so far in the institution. They noted that the institution was better now than it was 20 years ago, adding: “However, the institution can still be better than it is at the moment’’. It was gathered that each of the three students — Onyishi Uchenna, Enebeli Gratus and John Steven, would collect N100,000 for every semester for their school fees and upkeep. Th highpoint of the occasion was the inauguration of the multi-million naira modern students’ refectory by Ozumba. The Provost of the College of Medicine, Prof Uchenna Nwagha, his Deputy, Prof Bond Anyaehie and the Dean, Faculty of Dentistry, Prof Felix Chukwuneke, were among the personalities who attended the historic re-union. (NAN)