By Ginika Okoye  Abuja,   –        Governors Jibrilla Bindow of Adamawa and his counterpart, Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State have bagged excellence award in Abuja, for best practices in procurement and supply management in their states. The other recipient is Mr Aliyu Abdulhameed, the Managing Director, Nigeria Incentive Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL); for good procurement and supply chain of agricultural input and credit to farmers. The management of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management of Nigeria (CIPSMN), the presenter of the award said the recipients had distinguished themselves in their areas of endeavour. Presenting the award, Alhaji Abdulhameed Oyewo, the President of the institute, said the awardees were chosen after the institute conducted an integrity and performance search on them. Oyewo said the award was to spur the recipients into doing more and ensuring that funds meant for the public were adequately invested. According to him, the institute is a registered body set up to train, certify and conduct research on procurement and investment best practices. The award recipients assured that the honour would encourage them to perform better in their areas of endeavour. Responding Bindow, said that although the administration faced enormous challenges when he took over the mantle of leadership of the state, his government had to perform in the interest of the people. Mr Martins Babale, the Deputy Governor,represented by him at the occasion. “When we came into office, we were challenged in so many ways, but we just had no option but to perform. “We do not want to make mistakes; we want to do the right thing. We discovered the right things to do and we decided to do them. “We will follow the rules and continue to do our best,’’ the governor said. Ambode, also represented by Mrs Folasade Adesoye, the Head of Service in the state said the state government was committed to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The governor said the state under his watch had ensured that tax payers’ monies were adequately utilised for service delivery. NIRSAL’s MD, Abdulhameed, said the organisation was dedicated to abiding by good procurement and supply chain management to achieve its goals. According to him, this is evidenced in NIRSAL’s operations from agricultural input supplies to farmers to storage of produce in line with best practices. He assured that the award would spur him and the organisation into doing more in the quest for the rapid development and transformation of agri-business in the country. “I wish to commend President Muhammadu Buhari and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, for believing in me and support NIRSAL to get to where we are today,’’ he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the institute is a professional independent and non profit-making body, charged with the responsibility for registration, training, research and discipline of any erring members and related matters. The act to establish the institute was enacted by the National Assembly and assented by the President on April 30, 2007.