By Prudence Arobani New York –   The UN has called for effort to bring a global treaty into force that prevents more countries from developing nuclear weapons. UN Secretary-General António Guterres made the appeal in a message for the International Day Against Nuclear Tests, observed annually on Aug. 29. “The history of nuclear testing is one of suffering, with the victims of more than 2,000 nuclear tests often from the most vulnerable communities around of the world. “The devastating consequences – which were not confined by international borders – encompassed impacts on the environment, health, food security and economic development,” Guterres said. The UN has been pressing for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban-Treaty (CTBT), which prohibits nuclear explosions anywhere – whether on the Earth’s surface, in the atmosphere, underwater or underground – to become law. CTBT also makes it difficult for countries to develop nuclear bombs for the first time, and prevents nations that already possess nuclear technology from developing even more powerful bombs. More than 180 countries have signed the treaty, most of whom have also ratified it. However, while nearly universal, the treaty would only enter into force after it is signed and ratified by eight countries with nuclear technology capacity: China, Egypt, India, Iran, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan and the United States. The UN chief said CTBT had an essential role within the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation regime. “It fosters international peace and security by constraining the development of nuclear weapons. Our collective security demands that every effort should be made to bring this essential treaty into force.” Lassina Zerbo, Executive Secretary of CTBT Organisation, the UN Commission which promotes the treaty, also called on the international community to “take the final steps” to ensure its entry into force. “As long as the Treaty is not in force, the established international norm against nuclear testing and the global verification system that has been developed over the past two decades are at risk. “I urge the last eight countries to ratify the Treaty and I appeal to others to renew their efforts in supporting it,” he said, also in a message to mark the International Day. Zerbo said his belief regarding the role the treaty could play on the Korean Peninsula was strengthened following a visit to the region last week. (NAN)