By Joan Odafe Lagos –   The Nigeria Red Cross Society (NRC) is set to host a week-long International Youth Camp (IYC) that will tackle the menace of drug abuse, especially among youths in Lagos. Mrs Adebola Kolawole, the Chairman, Local Organising Committee (LOC), made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos. Kolawole, who is also the Vice-Chairman of the society, Lagos branch, said that the camp would hold from Aug. 26 to Sept. 2 at the Resettlement Camp, Igando, in Ikotun-Igando Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos State. NAN reports that the NRC-IYC is an annual event aimed at promoting youths’ emotional, social, cognitive and behavioural development. The theme is: “Awakening Humanity in Youth and Fostering Generational Z Leaders.” The Generation Z are youths between the ages of 15 and 24. According to Kolawole, one of the major issues that will dominate discussions at the event is tackling drug abuse, especially among the youth. “In Lagos State, drug abuse is something everybody is campaigning against, and we are working with the Lagos State Kick Against Drug Abuse (LASKADA). “This is Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode’s initiative against drug abuse, through the Ministry of Youth and Social Development,” she said. On the activities to expect, Kolawole said that there would be a lot of arts and culture on display. She said: “The IYC has been tagged: “Eko Re”,  meaning ‘This is Lagos.’ “We are rich in culture and heritage; we want to showcase some of the things Lagos is known for.” Also, Mr Nwapa Nwapa, Acting Chairman, National Organising Committee (NOC) of the camp, said that the IYC was one of the Red Cross’ activities to appreciate its volunteers. He told NAN that about 1,000 youths were being expected from different countries. “It’s an IYC and we have about 190 national societies in different countries; we have sent invitations to all the 190. “Last year, we had 10 countries in attendance. This year, we are hoping to have more. “We want to encourage our volunteers to do more. We want to awaken the humanity in them so they can do more than they are presently doing,” he said. In his remarks, Mr Olakunle Lasisi, the Lagos Branch Secretary of NRC, commended LASEMA and the state’s Ministry of Youths and Social Development for their contributions toward ensuring the success of the event. Lasisi said: “Since Lagos branch won the bid for the IYC, LASEMA has been very supportive; particularly in terms of facilities. “The Ministry of Youth and Social Development promised to mobilise as much as 1,000 mattresses for us. “The commissioner, Mr Agboola Dabiri, made a personal contribution of arranging a visit to the Oba of Lagos, to enable the international participants to meet one of our influential monarchs.” NAN also reports that the IYC is jointly sponsored by the Saudi Arabia Red Crescent, Turkish Red Crescent, LASEMA, Lagos State Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and Culbeat Foundation, an NGO.  (NAN)