By Abiodun Esan  Ilorin   –       Eminent Nigerians took turns to pay tributes to Africa’s first professor of Geology, Mosobalaje Oyawoye, at the public presentation of his autobiography in Offa, Kwara. A former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Alfa Belgore, described Oyawoye, who clocked 91 years, as a kind-hearted and loving man of integrity. Belgore, who said he never had cause to doubt the integrity of the don, also commended the celebrator for his love for his Offa community and Kwara. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the autobiography was entitled: “ Path of Destiny: An Autobiography.” The Chief Presenter of the book and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Dr Wale Babalakin, commended Oyawoye for putting his thoughts into a book. He said future generations of Nigerians would learn from his wealth of experience. “God gave Baba enormous talents, God gave him the time and the courage of conviction to reduce his thoughts into writing,” he said. Babalakin, who is the Pro-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, said everybody should read the book which he called a compendium. Announcing the sum of N5million, Babalakin said he was buying two copies each for all federal universities in Nigeria, two copies for Summit University, Offa, and two copies for Osun State University, Osogbo. Babalakin also bought two copies for the University of Maiduguri where he was also a Pro-Chancellor between 2009 and 2013 as well as additional three copies for the University of Lagos. Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, a former Representative of Nigeria to the United Nation, said he was proud that Oyawoye had blazed the trail as the first professor of Geology in Africa. “I will take inspiration from Prof. Oyawoye to write my own autobiography. “ Prof. Oyawoye is a very humble prince from a royal family just like myself, and an accomplished academic,’’ he said. The Agbaakin of Offa land, Chief Wasiu Adepoju, said Oyawoye made a great impact on his life through his constant counselling. “ The one enviable attribute of Baba Oyawoye is his consistency, a consistency borne out of his integrity,” he said. NAN reports that part of the proceeds from the book presentation would go to the Monmodu-Jamiu Oyawoye Foundation (MJOF). MJOF Executive Director, Kola Oyawoye, said the foundation was founded in 2001 to support the socio-economic development of Offa in the areas of education, poverty alleviation and health.