By Abujah Racheal Abuja –  The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on Wednesday condoled with the leaderships of the Roman Catholic Church and the Nigerian Baptist Convention over the demise of the two clerics. The President, Rev Samson Ayokunle in a statement signed by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, Special Assistant, Media and Communications to the CAN president, in Abuja condemned their killings. Ayokunle said the clerics were killed by some unknown gunmen in Abuja and Kaduna State. He added that the late Rev. Fr. Michael Akawu, was reportedly shot dead by identified gunmen in Gwagwalada, Abuja, while shopping on Aug. 18. “Few hours later, on Sunday, August 19, at about 1.00 a.m, according to informed sources, some hoodlums suspected to be Fulani terrorists attacked Nasara Baptist Church in Guguwa near Rigasa in Kaduna. “The suspected terrorists shot dead Rev. Hosea Akuchi and took away his wife, Mrs Talatu Akuchi. “Her whereabouts remain unknown and the criminals have demanded for the sum of five million naira for her release,” he said. Ayokunle said that Akawu, was ordained as priest on Feb. 4, 2017 by the Archbishop of Abuja, the Most Revd. John Cardinal Onayeikan and was the first FCT indigenous Catholic priest to be ordained. The CAN president prayed to God to comfort and console the Roman Catholic Church in Nigeria and the Nigerian Baptist Convention, the churches where they were serving with their immediate families. He, however, called on the Nigeria Police and other relevant security agencies to do whatever it takes to bring the culprits to book and rescue the widow of the late Rev. Akuchi as soon as practicable. “We once again call on our security agencies to be more proactive and invest more on intelligence gathering with a view to preventing many of these crimes that are being committed before their watches undetected,” he stressed. The cleric noted with pains and disappointment the state of insecurity across the country, adding that the Federal Government should work hard to improve security in the country. According to him, nowhere is safe and secured, as terrorists, rampaging Fulani herdsmen, killer bandits, armed robbers, kidnappers and other hoodlums were operating unchecked. He said that the security agencies seemed busy with elections and forgot that leaders were elected to rule over the living souls. “Nigeria’s security situation is reprehensible, unacceptable and condemnable. We once again call on President Muhammadu Buhari to work on the security system of the country. “Let there be a visible improvement in our security system, as the governed are not satisfied with their performances in ensuring security of lives and property. The CAN president again called on the Police to arrest all assailants that were responsible for these evil acts. “Enough of the senseless killings, these killings must stop in the country,’’ he warned. (NAN)