By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, on Monday revealed what the national leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu wanted to do when he was denied Buhari’s vice presidency.  Tambuwal informed that “Tinubu tried to rock the boat when he was denied Buhari’s vice Presidency.  He made this disclosure while reacting to a statement credited to Tinubu to the effect that he defected from the APC to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) because he feared it will be a tall dream for him to get automatic ticket.  The former House of Representative Speaker insisted that he could have challenged President Buhari under the APC if that was what he wanted.  According to him, “Tinubu thinks every other person could behave his way. If I wanted to contest under the APC as president, I could have done so and only the votes could have produced a winner”.  Addibg that he has what it takes to contest against President Muhammadu Buhari under the All Progressives Congress (APC) platform if he wanted.  He noted that if he did, only the votes of delegates could have produced a winner.  Tambuwal stated this in his Tweeter handle “@Sokotogovthouse” thus:  “If I wanted to and if the Presidency is what Ahmed Tinubu thinks I defected, I could contest with President Buhari under the APC. I have what it takes to have contested with Mr. President.  “Tinubu tried to rock the boat when he was denied Buhari’s vice Presidency. He thinks every other person could behave his way. If I wanted to contest under the APC as president, I could have done so and only the votes could have produced a winner”.  Tambuwal said in any case, Tinubu is confessing that there is no level-playing ground for all members of the APC; that there is no internal democracy in it and that some people were denied their right to internal democracy”.  He reminded that Nigerians are familiar with the reasons he listed for leaving the party (APC),  none of which was “automatic ticket.”  “I adduced reasons of my defection to the PDP. The reasons are still on record. Automatic ticket by the APC is certainly not part of that,” he said.