By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu –   An Abuja-based group, Security Watch Africa, has nominated Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State as the “Best Governor on Security Matters’’ and for “Best Security and Safety Conscious State Government’’ in Africa. Mr Patrick Agbambu, Managing Director of the group also disclosed that the Police Command in Enugu State was nominated for the “Best Pro-active Police Command in West and Central Africa’’ award. Agbambu, who presented the letters of nomination in Enugu on Friday, said that the Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Mr Mohammed Danmallam, was also presented nomination letters for two awards. He said the awards to the commissioner were for “Best Conflicts Resolution Police Chief in Africa’’ and “Golden Star Award for Exemplary National Security Service in West and Central Africa’’. Agbambu noted that a survey conducted by independent security observers, revealed that Ugwuanyi’s administration had done well in the area of massive support to security agencies. He also noted that the Police command in Enugu had done well in proactive and community-oriented policing. “The command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Ebere Amaraizu, was found worthy on his proactiveness, responsiveness and effective engagement with the command’s public and commitment to the protection of lives and property in the state in 2017/2018,’’ he said. Danmallam, who received the letters on behalf of the governor, thanked the group for seeing and recognising Ugwuanyi’s modest contribution and the command’s officers and men for ensuring the safety and security in the state and by extension the country. “The reward for exemplary hard work is more work in order to get close to perfection in what we do daily for the betterment of the society. “I will dedicate all these nominations to the gallant officers and men of the command who are working tirelessly daily. “I will also dedicate it to the state government, sister security agencies, organisations and individuals that have assisted the command and its personnel to attain this height,’’ Danmallam said. NAN reports that Amaraizu also received a nomination letter for “Effective Police Public Relations in West and Central Africa’’, while DSP Ekeleme Chidobe, received a nomination letter as “Best Anti-Crime Police Officer in Nigeria’’. The 15th edition of the Africa Security Watch awards and conference, will hold between Nov.6 and Nov. 8 in Banjul, Gambia.  (NAN)