By Habibu Harisu  Sokoto,   –     A Chieftain of All Progressive Congress (APC) in Sokoto, Alhaji Faruku Malami-Yabo, has stressed the need for deploying Information Technology to track criminals and economic activities in the state. Malami-Yabo made the call in a interview with newsmen in Sokoto on Friday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Malami-Yabo, was a former Commissioner of Finance and Local Government Affairs in the state. According to him, the adoption of new technology in everyday life is responsible for the surge in sophisticated crimes in the state. He therefore said the application of the same technology in tracking the widespread vices and crimes in the society was antidote to the menace. Malami-Yabo, who expressed intention to contest for governorship under APC, said the deployment of ICT in the state would also create the enabling environment for businesses to thrive. He said it was also imperative for the state’s strategic development plans to evolve from professionals and outcomes of viable social economic and engineering researches. “Indeed, professionals as well as academicians can deploy their research works to improve the standard of the state, especially in the area of job creation, development of industries and agriculture. “There must be good policies and platforms from which these research assets done by academicians can be commercialized. “This can be done when they are linked to industries that are available in the state’’, he said. On how agriculture could be revamped in the state, Malami-Yabo said it was about time the sector took a transition from the traditional method of farming. He however, said such a stride could be achieved after a long term but sustained investment in the sector. “I agree that there must be a transition from where we are to where we want to be. “In most stable economies, institutional farming has always been part of their policies, but we will gradually but swiftly modernise the process to attain such height’’, Malami-Yabo said. The governorship aspirant said the socio-economic development in the state had been stagnated due to continued absence of visionary leadership and proper government direction. Speaking on President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership, Malami-Yabo said providence had bestowed on the country a selfless and incorruptible president, and urged Nigerians to support him in reclaiming the country’s lost glory. “The President made three promises, security, economy and corruption and we are seeing good results. He can only do more if he has the support of the people’’, he said. Malami-Yabo urged the electorate to embrace the on-going voters’ registration exercises across the country, so as to leaders of their choice in the 2019 general election.