By Chinyere Nwachukwu   Lagos   –     No fewer that 4,800 university admission seekers have applied for the School of Foundation, University of Lagos, in the 2018/2019 academic session. The Director of the school, Prof. Timothy Nubi, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Lagos that the school would receive more than 7,000 applications before the close of sales of the forms on Aug. 17. NAN reports that students, who successfully complete the foundation programme, will be offered direct entry into the 200 level of degree programmes through the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board. According to Nubi, preparations for the smooth conduct of entrance examination into the school have already been concluded. The examination is administered by the Joint University Preliminary Examination Board. “We are fully ready for the conduct of this year’s examination. The sale of the application document commenced in June, and right now, everything is in place. “It is a computer-based test; the same for the conduct of the university’s post Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). Nubi told NAN that the school got about 5,000 applications for the examination in 2007. “This year, we have registered 4,800 candidates and are hopeful that we are going to register not less than 7,000 candidates. “This is because some candidates who are likely to miss their post-UTME might seize the opportunity of the registration to secure a second chance rather than wait for another year. “The conduct of the examination which was initially fixed for Aug. 13 to Aug. 17 has been moved to Aug. 27 and Aug. 28 as a result of the Muslim holiday,” Nubi said. The former Dean, Faculty of Environmental Studies of the university, gave the assurance that candidates would start receiving notifications for the examination from Aug. 20. He advised candidates to get familiar with the use of computer. “I admonish candidates who are not computer literate to start familiarising themselves with it and ensure they prepare hard. “Few days after the examination, results will be released; lectures will commence soon after payments and registration by successful candidates.”