By Anita Eboigbe  Abuja    –     A renowned Nigerian musician, Bankole Wellington known as Banky W took time out to celebrate marriages in just released visuals for his new song “Running after U’’, which featured Nonso Amadi. The beautiful over four-minute flick directed by Banky W himself and released on Thursday, had cameos from notable couples in the entertainment industry. Banky W, who is married to actress Adesuwa Etomi, took to his Instagram handle @bankywellington to explain the concept behind the video and the reason why he decided to feature notable couples. “Do you ever think about the fact that there aren’t too many celebrations of married life on Music Television? “There’s a lot of hooking up and tweaking, there’s a lot of consummating and flirting, and there are a whole lot of proposals-and-wedding day afterward. “In the `Running After U’ song, I tried to tell the story of how my wife and I got together. “And so 24 hours before we shot the video, I decided I wanted to use the video to celebrate the journey of marriage. “And so, I drastically altered the original casting plans last minute, and called up all my married friends who were in town. “To come hang out on set, have some fun together, and celebrate the decision to attempt this thing called life together. “The journey of marriage isn’t always easy, but with the right person, every step ends up worth it. “If there is one thought I’d like for people to take away, it’s that nobody is perfect, but you can be perfect for each other – you just have to find someone worth trying for. “Run after her, then run with her, until you conquer forever together. And while you attempt to do this, don’t forget to have some fun,” Banky W said. Dancer and Guinness world record holder Kaffy Shafau-Ameh and her husband, drummer Papi J-Ameh were seen goofing around in the background. Also, media personality Tolu ‘Toolz’ Demuren and her husband, pilot Tunde Demuren were featured alongside style blogger Nobel Igwe and his wife Chioma. Actress Osas ighodaro and husband, actor Gbenro Ajibade; and media personality IK Osakioduwa and wife, event planner Olo also made cameos. They were joined by media consultant Steve Babaeko and his wife, photographer Yetunde; and media personality Tosyn Buknor and husband Aurelien Boyer. Banky W also featured choreographer Paul Dubson who won the #loveyoubaby challenge for the online dance challenge for his last song. Banky, who played a lead character in the movie “The Wedding Party” in 2016 and its sequel in 2017, has released several albums. Some of the albums include ‘Undeniable’ (EP) in 2003, ‘Back in the Building’ in 2005 and Mr Capable in 2008. The EME boss had also collaborated with other notable Nigerian artistes such as Skales, Sarkodie, Sasha P, Mode 9, MI and Wizkid.