By Babatunde Ogunrinde Lagos  –  Remi Aboderin, the Secretary, Nigeria Boxing Board of Control (NBB of C), on Wednesday said the organisation was supporting Nigeria’s cruiserweight boxer, Tony Salam, to defeat Chomunorwa “Sting’’ Gonorenda of Zimbwabwe. The two boxers will clash in Harare, Zimbwabwe, on Aug. 31 for their World Boxing Federation (WBF) Africa Cruiserweight title. Aboderin told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that Salam had the qualities to outpunch his opponent and emerge the new cruiserweight Africa boxing king. “I have seen Salam box, and I can tell you, he is a great boxer and carries the national pride with a lot of dignity and passion whenever he steps into the ring to fight. “We at the NBB of C back him to win the boxing title and continue to show the qualities he is capable of as he has made the step to be the best in the category,’’ Aboderin said. Salam popularly known as “Muri Sugar’’ told newsmen in Lagos that he would beat Gonorenda silly in front of his home fans at the Independence Stadium, Harare. Salam, has had 11 wins and just a loss in his previous 12 pro fights. He last fought in the Boxfest Challenge held at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos, in April. He recorded a unanimous point’s decision over highly-rated German opponent, Eugene Buchmeiller. Salam, also vowed to conquer any antics brought by Gonorenda and at the end be crowned the new WBF African Cruiserweight title. “As far as I am concerned, Gonorenda can’t do anything to me and will not stop me when we clash at the Independence Stadium. “I am a potential world champion, as I will use the opportunity to climb to the next level which is to compete for the world title,’’ Salam said. “I’m a Grade A fighter, while Gonorenda is a Grade D boxer, so I’ll beat him silly,’’ he added. In the same vein, Saleh Fawaz, the manager of the Nigerian boxer, who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Saleh Gloves Promotion, has predicted doom for the Zimbabwean. He has tipped his boxer to overcome everything thrown at him tipping Muri Sugar to win convincingly in Harare on Aug. 31.  (NAN)