By Ibukun Emiola Ibadan –  The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, says the Yoruba race is fortunate to have the likes of Prof. Mosobalaje Oyawoye, Africa’s first professor of geology. The monarch spoke on Saturday in Ibadan at the launch of a book written by Oyawoye and entitled: ‘Path of Destiny: An Auto Biography of Professor Mosobalaje Olaloye Oyawoye.’’ Ogunwusi said: “It is our contributions to humanity that count after our demise. “ The world is vanity; every material thing acquired will be left here, it would not matter. It is how much impact we have on people that constitutes an enduring legacy. “The first success Baba Oyawoye had is the blessing and grace to uplift others; you are a good father whose story will be included in the annals of Nigeria’s history.” Others who paid tributes to Oyawoye included the Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, Prof. Idowu Olayinka, the Vice-Chancellor of Durham University in the United Kingdom, Prof. Stuart Corbridge as well as Prof. Akin Mabogunje and Prof. Bolanle Awe. The reviewer of the book and professor of history at the University of Ibadan, Tayo Adesina, described the publication as “ a story of servanthood and selflessness to humanity.’’ “According to the author, this book is to serve as his autobiography, one that was set within Offa history, culture and tradition. “ This self-imposed mandate is considered important to the next generation to fill their understanding on leadership, history, culture and tradition,’’ he said. Adesina said the 14-chapter book spread across 514 pages would enrich humanity beyond the boundary of Offa where the author hails from. Oyawoye, in his remarks, expressed appreciation and joy at being celebrated. “The book is filled with my experience of the University of Ibadan which has moulded my personal character; it has taught me that integrity should not be compromised. “Most of our universities are being destroyed because the government took them over. “I resigned after 17 years when I saw the incursion of the military government into tertiary institutions and the danger it portends. “The return of autonomy to school is the key to revamping the education sector in Nigeria, ” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was organised by the Monmodu-Jamiu Oyawoye Foundation in collaboration with Book Kraft. (NAN)