By Mohammed Ahmed Kaigama  Misau  –    An NGO, Development Exchange Centre (DEC), has donated 10,000 tree seedlings of various species to Misau Local Government Area of Bauchi State. ‎Mrs Titi Yakubu, the Executive Director of DEC, made this disclosure on Tuesday while handing over the seedlings to the Emir of Misau, Alhaji Ahmed Suleiman in Misau. Yakubu said that the trees would help to check warming triggered by increasing desertification. ‎She said the project was being executed in partnership with Misau Emirate Development Foundation with support from Bread For The World (BROT), Germany. ‎According to her, we are all aware of the much talked about global warming, which we all know is as a result of increasing felling of trees and its negative repercussions. ‎”We, therefore, need to sensitise our communities on the need to protect our environment, particularly now that some indigenous tree species are going into extinction,’’ she said. Yakubu enumerated some of the benefits of tree planting to include, promotion of good health, economic empowerment and protection of the environment, as well as serving as wind breaker. “That is why we train members from five districts of Misau Emirate with material support to ensure the sustainability of the project,’’ she said. Yakubu, however, implored traditional rulers and officials of Misau emirate development foundation to monitor and ensure that the benefiting communities nurture the tree seedlings to maturity. In his remark, the Emir reminded members of the community of the health and economic benefits of tree planting. “The Holy Prophet of Islam implored Muslims to cultivate the habit of raising God fearing children, building schools, constructing mosques, as well as planting trees to reap bountiful blessings in hereafter,’’ he said. Suleiman lauded DEC and BROT for reawakening the consciousness of the people of the emirate on tree planting. He restated the need for individuals and public institutions; including schools and places of worship to plant trees in order to protect their environments. Also speaking, the Chairman of Misau Emirate Development Foundation, Mr Muhammed Alkali, appreciated the NGOs for the initiative and the support. He said the foundation was currently nurturing additional ten thousand tree seedlings of various species to encourage afforestation in the entire emirate.