By Idris Olukoya Epe (Lagos State) –   The traditional ruler of Ora in Eredo area of Epe, Lagos State, Chief Peter Ogungbesan, on Saturday donated some educational items and N750,000 cash to schools and youths in the area. Ogungbesan made the donation at an empowerment programme organised by Ora Community Development Association. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the items donated include 250 school uniforms, 1,000 notebooks, NECO and GCE forms for 20 secondary school students. The Olu of Ora also also gave N25, 000 each to 30 indigenes to boost their businesses. The schools which benefited from the empowerment programme includ UPE Primary School, Odogbawojo Primary School and RCM Primary School. Ora, a fast developing community in Eredo LCDA, has been in existence for over 200 years and it has eight other communities under it. The monarch said the gesture was to support the educational career of the youths and alleviate poverty among the people. “I love education and I want my people to be educated.I am also ready to support them to any length to alleviate their sufferings. “Community and society will develop when the people are educated and knowledgeable. “I spend millions of naira on empowerment programmes, but I know it will be rewarding at the end of the day,” he said. Ogungbesan lauded the Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, for the massive infrastructure development of Epe and Eredo. “The development has boosted the economy of the communities and also helped to improve standard of living of the people.” He urged the government to provide pipe borne water and other amenities including link roads in the streets to communities in the area. Earlier, Mr Adeniyi Saliu, the Chairman, Eredo LCDA, thanked the monarch for the philanthropic gestures. He said the monarch had been supporting the government’s “Change Agenda” through his empowerment programmes. “I really appreciate his kind gestures and I pledge to support the Ora community in the area of basic infrastructure. “This community is under my council and my priority is to support the development of all the communities under my watch,” he said. One of the beneficiaries, Miss Fatimah Ismail-Olukoya, a student, said the monarch’s gesture would help her academic pursuit. “I benefited from the NECO/GCE form and I promise will not disappoint my parents and the monarch.” Another beneficiary, Mrs Aminat Ogungbesan, expressed appreciation for the money given her, saying it will boost her business. “I will use the money to buy more goods in my shop.” (NAN)