By Chinyere Bassey   Lagos  –      The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), on Wednesday said it has established an indigenous global certification body that would operate in Nigeria to enhance global competitiveness. Mr Timothy Olawale, Director-General designate of NECA, said this at a media briefing in Lagos, that the body would enable indigenous Nigeria companies spend less getting international certification. Olawale said that the new outfit, known as NECA’s Global Certification Limited (NGCL), was done in collaboration with the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO). According to him, NGCL has successfully gone through the process of international accreditation and set to add value to the Federal Government approved National Quality Infrastructure Project (NQIP), launched in 2014. He said that before now, Nigerian companies seeking international certification would do that outside Africa or Egypt through the Egyptian Accreditation Council (EGAC), a recognised member of International Accreditation Federation (IAF). “But with NGCL, Nigerian companies can secure their accreditation locally. “NGCL has been internationally accredited as the first indigenous certification body to provide certification training services for companies locally and internationally, “he said. Olawale said that the establishment of NGCL and its accreditation as a certification body by the EGAC assured business operators of better access to certification of management systems. He said it also gave access to standardisation, enhanced business competiveness and removal of technical barriers to global trade. The director-general designate said that the accreditation came when the focus of the government was on diversification from the oil sector in favour of promotion of exports from other sectors. He also said that the landmark project would enhance business competiveness, impact the quality infrastructure landscape in Nigeria and break barriers to global trade. According to him, NGCL would also improv the business management system processes, business growth, productivity, profitability, marketability of goods and services and compliance to statutory and regulatory authorities. Mr Shaukat Hussain, Technical Adviser to UNIDO, said the international body was interested in better standards of Nigerian companies and products. Hussain, who was represented by Mr Rotimi Olaoluwa, Lead Consultant, ISO 9001: 2015, said that the project would be a robust business strategy to boost investment. For Mrs Celine Oni, Chief Executive Officer of NGCL, said businesses needed to align with emerging trends in global marketplace. She pointed out that the implementation of the ISO standards in business had brought about improved efficiency and effectiveness of processes as well as adherence to regulatory and statutory requirements.