By Mohammed Mamman Gulani (Yobe) –   The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in collaboration with returnee communities in Yobe, has rehabilitated a borehole, clinic and drain, to improve the lives of communities displaced by insurgency. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Isiah Akuon, UN Volunteer Humanitarian Crisis Coordinator in Nigeria, on Saturday inaugurated the projects in Bara and Bumsa communities of Gulani Local Government Area. He said the rationale behind the volunteer programme was to mobilize the communities to be involved in the projects for sustainability and maximum benefits. “We cannot continue to rely on government to do everything for us; we have to be involved to get the infrastructures functioning to serve the people. “The clinic in Bumsa village was destroyed by windstorm years back and needs to be rehabilitated and put back into use to serve the community. “Similarly, the borehole which had been unserviceable before now, will provide the community with accessible and clean potable water, while the drainage will also save them from flood,” he said. Isiah commended the communities for their commitment to contribute and participate in rehabilitating the facilities. Mohammed Kasim, Bumsa Village UN Volunteer facilitator, said the clinic, which was constructed in 1986, was the only health facility serving the community. “The UNDP assisted the community with N202, 000, the community raised N250, 000, while the local council also supported the project with N130, 000,” he said. Mohammed Garba, Bara Village UNDP Volunteer Coordinator, said the rehabilitated borehole had saved women and children from wasting valuable time and energy trekking long distances in search for water. Aisha Hussaini, a house wife, said the rehabilitation of the water facility had brought succor to the community. Alhaji Yerima Maina, the Community Leader, expressed willingness of the communities to partner with the UNDP to rehabilitate more infrastructures. He urged the UN volunteer programme to extend the project to other communities. (NAN)