By Mohammed Nur Tijani Kano –   Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, has reiterated his administration’s commitment to empower youths in the state through training on various vocational skills.
Ganduje made the remark at the National Youth Week celebration on Saturday in Kano.
“The government attaches so much importance to empowerment programme because at the end, the beneficiaries will be self-reliant, thereby improving the economic capacity of the state.
“We have confidence in our youths and they are our hope and leaders of tomorrow, if well educated,” he said. He said that his administration had empowered no fewer than 50,000 youths on various skills acquisition programmes across the 44 local government areas of the state.
According to him, the programme was to expose youths to various skills such as carpentry, plumbing, panel beating, car repairs and vulcanising, among others.
He said that the training would go a long way in complementing the efforts of the Federal Government toward addressing unemployment among youths in the country.
The governor said that the State Government had built ultra-modern skill acquisition centre worth more than N4 billion.
Ganduje said that 72 youths were sponsored by the state government for training in various fields of automobile engineering at the Peugeot Automobile Nigeria Learning Centre in Kaduna.
He said that the beneficiaries had since completed the training and were now training other youths in the state.
The State Commissioner for Information, Youth and Culture, Malam Muhammad Garba, commended the governor for his efforts in empowering women and youths.
He said that the empowerment programmes were designed to improve living standard of the youths in the state. Garba also commended the governor for his foresight in building multi-billion Naira skill acquisition centre and his efforts in paying scholarships for students studying both at home and abroad.
Malam Kabiru Lakwaya, the Chairman of National Youth Council of Nigeria, Kano State Chapter, commended both Federal and State Governments for their efforts in creating jobs for the youths in the state and the country at large.
He advised youths to be dedicated, hard working and to stay away from drugs and other social vices. (NAN)