By Kazeem Akande  Lagos – The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has called on the motoring public to exercise patience and be vigilant on the roads to make the celebration of Eid-el-kabir hitch-free. Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, the FRSC Corps Marshal, made the appeal in a statement signed by Mr Bisi Kazeem, Corps Public Education Officer, on Monday. Oyeyemi, in the Sallah message, assured members of the public that FRSC was committed to ensuring safer roads during the holidays. According to him, the celebrations attract increased human and vehicular movement, which require motorists to drive with care and show patience to other road users. “As a reflection of the spirit of sacrifice which the season symbolises, drivers need to exercise patience and be cautious of other road users. “Eid-el-Kabir is traditionally a feast of sacrifice which provides opportunity for all Muslims to reflect on the sanctity of lives and mercies shown to mankind by God as evidenced by the substitution of a ram with the life of Ismail. “The lesson of the sacrifice demonstrates how God takes the sanctity of lives and need for people to take measures that can ensure human safety. “The magnanimity shown to prophet Abraham by way of  God substituting a ram for the life of his son, Ismail, as is being observed in the Eid-el-Kabir celebration, is a great lesson for mankind,’’ he said. Oyeyemi appealed to the people to avoid acts capable of exposing their lives and those of their neighbours to danger during the celebration. He congratulated the Muslim Faithful on the celebration, assuring them that adequate FRSC Regular and Special Marshals as well as logistics had been mobilised for effective traffic management. The FRSC boss also said that rescue operations and support to road travellers across the country were in place. The Corps Marshal said that he had directed all the patrol teams to focus more on specific offences like wrongful overtaking, use of phone while driving, traffic light violation, drunk driving, overloading and lane indiscipline. He solicited the cooperation of members of the public, and urged motorists to obey the directives of the personnel of the FRSC and other law enforcement agencies who had been deployed for the assignment across the country. Oyeyemi appealed to members of the public not to hesitate to contact the FRSC Call Centre through the toll-free line: 122 in the event of a road crash and other emergencies, for prompt response. He said all FRSC facilities would remain open and functional during the celebration and beyond, to attend to members of the public.  (NAN)