By Emmanuel Mogbede  Abuja –  The All Progressives Congress (APC) took off the gloves and knocked Senator Bukola Saraki, with bare knuckle on Thursday, declaring him unfit to be President of the Senate. The party said this in a blistering statement issued by Mr Yekini Nabena, its acting National Publicity Secretary in Abuja. It was the first reaction from the party, since Saraki addressed a press conference Wednesday posturing himself as a defender of democracy, against the backdrop of a reckless blockade of the National Assembly by the sacked director-general of the Department of State Services, Lawal Daura. Saraki heaped the blame on the executive, a claim debunked promptly by the sacking of Daura and condemnation of the action, by acting President Yemi Osinbajo. The APC was obviously not impressed by Saraki’s grandstanding and declared that he should be put where he belonged. “The Senate must do everything possible to put Saraki where he rightly belongs; the back seat. “He is definitely not a fit and proper person to preside over the country’s upper and revered legislative house,”the statement said. It noted that in every democratic country, the position of the Senate President was one of the highest political offices one could attain. Such position the statement said, was reserved for the best of the best, experienced and exemplary politicians who by their character and conduct in public offices, the younger generation look up to as role models. It added that in terms of exemplary personage, the reverse was the case in respect to Saraki. According to the statement, Saraki has been “a dismal failure” and has been involved in one controversy or the other since he became the President of the Senate. This, it noted included; budget padding, legislative rascality, and sabotage of matters of national interest, among other criminalities too numerous to mention. “Having suffered under the 16-year misrule of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Saraki will go down in our country’s history as the worst Senate President Nigeria has had the misfortune to have. “Since his usurpation of the coveted seat, achieved through a wicked conspiracy with members of the opposition PDP, it has been from one controversy to another. “The code of conduct trial for false declaration of assets; conspiracy with his deputy to fraudulently alter the rules of the Senate and links to the deadly armed robbers who wasted many lives in the Offa robbery attack. “It is alleged that some of the robbery suspects were his political thugs used to rig elections; a common adage says: “show me your friends and I will tell you who you are,”it said. The statement stressed that Saraki was definitely not a good example for political leadership in the country. It further stressed that all over the world, the leadership of the legislature was provided by the political party with majority members. It added that in spite of this, Saraki would in the absence of many members of his former party, the APC, connive and conspire with members of the opposition PDP to emerge Senate President. The statement noted that in the process, Saraki traded off the Deputy Senate President position to the opposition PDP. It said that even with Saraki’s defection to the opposition PDP, and with APC in the majority in the Senate, he still had the impudence to present himself as the President of the Senate. The statement maintained that political ambition should be made of nobler stuff. “One is of course not surprised as Saraki’s greed, selfishness, treachery, disregard for protocol and constituted authority is well-reported. “In terms of treachery, Dr Saraki’s public humiliation of his late father and sister comes readily to mind; a traitor will always be a traitor, however the time and place,”the statement said. The party added that a man who betrayed his father, sister (many times), and the APC administration by sabotaging the executive and defecting to the PDP had no character, principles, values and integrity. The statement added that Saraki was only interested in his personal interest. “The question is not if he will defect again from PDP if Bukola Saraki’s interest is not served, but WHEN he will do so. Such mean men are not interested in the Nigeria of our dreams,”the statement said. The Full Statement In every democratic country, the position of the Senate President is one of the highest political offices one can attain. It is a position reserved for the best of the best, experienced and exemplary politicians who by their character and conduct in public offices, the younger generation look up to as role models. In terms of exemplary personage, the reverse is the case in respect of the current Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki who has been a dismal failure and has been involved in one controversy or the other – budget padding, filibustering, legislative rascality, sabotage of matters of national interest, among other criminalities too numerous to mention. Having suffered under the 16-year misrule of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Saraki will go down in our country’s history as the worst Senate President Nigeria has had the misfortune to have. Since his usurpation of the coveted seat, achieved through a wicked conspiracy with members of the opposition PDP, it has been from one controversy to another – the Code of Conduct trial for false declaration of assets; conspiracy with his deputy to fraudulently alter the rules of the Senate and links to the deadly armed robbers who wasted many lives in the Offa robbery attack. It is alleged that some of the robbery suspects were his political thugs used to rig elections; a common adage says: “Show me your friends and I will tell you who you are”. Dr. Saraki is definitely not our good example for political leadership. All over the world, the leadership of the legislature is provided by the political party with majority members. But Dr. Saraki would in the absence of many members of his former party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), connive and conspire with members of the opposition PDP to emerge Senate President, and in the process tradeoff the Deputy Senate President position to the opposition PDP – a political betrayal and treachery even the devil would be envious of. Even at this time he has defected to the opposition PDP, and with APC still in the majority in the Senate, Dr. Saraki still has the impudence to present himself as the Senate President. Political ambition should be made of nobler stuff. One is of course not surprised as Dr. Saraki’s greed, selfishness, treachery, disregard for protocol and constituted authority is well-reported. In terms of treachery, Dr. Saraki’s public humiliation of his late father and sister comes readily to mind. A traitor will always be a traitor, however the time and place. The Senate must do everything possible to put Dr. Saraki where he rightly belongs – the back seat. He is definitely not a fit and proper person to preside over the country’s upper and revered legislative house. A man who betrayed his father, sister (many times), his party PDP in 2014, the APC in 2015 by conspiring with opposition PDP senators to emerge Senate President, APC administration by sabotaging the executive and defecting to the PDP in 2018 has no character, principles, values and integrity. His only interest is Bukola Saraki, Bukola Saraki and Bukola Saraki. The question is not IF he will defect again from PDP if Bukola Saraki’s interest is not served, but WHEN he will do so. Such mean men are not interested in the Nigeria of our dreams.