By Oluwabukola Akanni Ibadan –  The Deputy Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Mr Musah Abdulwasiu (APC-Saki West), has described his purported expulsion from the All Progressives Congress (APC) as laughable and undemocratic. Abdulwasiu, spoke through his media aide, Mr Yemi Azeez, on Thursday in Ibadan. “I am still a financial member of the party till date. “I have not committed any act of insubordination or perform any action as spelt out by the party’s Constitution in Article 21 to warrant the laughable decision,’’ he said in a statement by Azeez. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Chairman and Secretary of APC, Saki West, Mr Tiamiyu Ayinla and Mr S.A. Adeniji respectively, had on Wednesday announced the expulsion of the deputy speaker. They accused him of “anti-party activities”. Abdulwasiu said that the expulsion was null and void owing to the fact that it negated all principles of democratic doctrine. According to him, the procedures to discipline any party member are well spelt out in Article 21 of the party’s constitution. “Article 21 (A) of the party’s constitution, Sub Article B (2) B (3) clearly states what constitute an offence and series of steps to be strictly adhered to before any member of the party can be either suspended or expelled. “It is recommended that the signatories to the purported letter of expulsion endeavour to study relevant Sections of our party’s Constitution in making future decisions, as they are to be exemplary to other party members. “This decision is null and void, therefore, to the extent that it falls short of the minimum requirements of the laws,” the deputy speaker said. Also, the Saki Movement for Good Governance, a Community-based Organisation (CBO), condemned what it termed “a childlike’’ decision to expel Abdulwasiu from APC. Its Chairman, Mr Salami Nefiu, described the deputy speaker as instrumental to the unity being enjoyed by the party in Saki West and Oke-Ogun area of the state. The CBO gave the signatories a seven-day ultimatum to reverse and rescind their decision. “We wish to inform the general public that the suspension did not reflect the wish of our people in Saki West Constituency and Oke-Ogun in general. “For the records, it is imperative for us to remind the signatories that the party’s success in Saki in the 2015 general was largely due to the acceptability of the deputy speaker among youths, elders and other stake holders in Saki and its environs. “We remain committed to the government, owing to our belief and trust in our golden son, Musah Abdulwasiu,” Nefiu said.  (NAN)