By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of The Nigerian Youth for Change on Wednesday in Abuja called for the removal of the Acting Director General of National Pension Commission (PENCOM), Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar over her insensitivity to the plights of the youth.  The group made the call while protesting against the 42 young Nigerians whose lawful employments were indefinitely suspended as well as the death of Mallam Mustapha Ajiya who died in a clearly avoidable circumstance allegedly caused by Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar.  Leader of the group, Azubuike Okafor in a speech at the entrance gate of the National Pension Commission (PENCOM) said that late Mustapha who hails from Zamfara State was lawfully employed by PENCOM based on the approval of the last Executive Management Committee of PENCOM after successfully completing the aptitude test and interview in December 2016/2017. According to him, Mrs  Aisha  upon assumption office, indefinitely suspended the legally concluded employments by mere phone calls because she wanted to do illegal employment. Explaining circumstance that led to the death of Ajiya, Azubuike said he (Ajiya) successfully completed an aptitude test in December 2016/January 2017 and passed the various interviews was subsequently offered employment in March, 2017 and directed to assume duty on May 2, 2017. “Mustapha accepted the offer and resigned his previous little employment as required by law, preparatory to resuming at PENCOM”. Unfortunately, the executive management committee of PENCOM was removed in April 2017″. “The new employees’ petition to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF Boss Mustapha to seek his fatherly intervention after all oral and several written entreaties to the Acting DG fell on deaf ears didn’t achieve the desired result either”. Continuing, the group alleged: “the truth is that Aisha Dahiru-Umar wants to do business with the employment of young Nigerians as she is collecting N2 million from every candidate for a slot. She wants to sacrifice their employments for money in first-ever employment scandal in PENCOM”. They also accused Dahir-Umar of using her position as DG PENCOM to secure employment for her son in Premium Pension, a Pension Fund Administrator, PFA and the children of many PENCOM GMs are also working and earning fat salaries in PFAs under PENCOM’s supervision in clear conflict of interest, while they would not allow children of the poor to also work and earn a living. Meanwhile, Azubuike called on the federal government to institute a judicial commission of enquiry comprising National Human Rights Commission, Labour and civil society to investigate the circumstances that led to Mustapha Ajiya’s death and bring the culprits to book among other demands. The protesters where caring placards with different inscription such as : Nigerian Youths are being oppressed in this country, Newly employed PENCOM staff kept at home for almost 2 years, Aisha Dahir-Umar stop misleading the SGF and FG, Oh Mustapha! Nigerian Youth mourn you RIP; Aisha PENCOM is not your Father’s property among others. The group among its 6-points demand called on President Muhammadu Buhari to order the immediate resumption of duty by the remaining PENCOM recruits to save other lives.  Efforts to get the reaction of PENCOM was unsuccessful as the management refused to talk to the newsmen. 