By Chimezie Anaso Umuchukwu (Anambra) –   Gov. Willie Obiano of Anambra on WednesdayPinaugurated a High Court complex in Umuchukwu, Orumba South Local Government Area of the state built by Dr Godwin Maduka, an American-based physician. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the judicial complex with judges quarters, was built in 2015 and donated to the state government. However, the complex has not been in use due to petitions from some aggrieved members of the community. Obiano, represented by Mr Harry Udu, the Head of Service, lauded the philanthropist for his contribution to the development of the state. He said that the gesture was in line with his `Think Home’ philosophy, and urged the people of the state anywhere in the world to take a cue and invest at home. “It is a wonderful thing and it is marvelous in our eyes; this is one of the best High Court edifices I have seen in Nigeria. “It is beautiful that it is happening in our state; we thank him immensely; he is a philanthropist par excellence; this is just one of the many things he has done for his community and for Anambra,” Obiano said. In her speech, Mrs Bianca Ojukwu, the wife of the late Ikemba Nnewi, Chief Odumegwu Ojukwu, lauded Maduka for impacting on the lives of the people in many positive ways. Ojukwu said that if other Igbos in the Diaspora could bring part of their wealth home as Maduka had done, the dearth of employment in the area would have been a thing of the past. She noted that such people were scarce in the society and should be appreciated for their good deeds. In his remark, Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka, a member of Board of Trustees of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), urged the state government and the judiciary to urgently put the complex to use. “My appeal is that this effort should be encouraged; he has spent a fortune to build this complex and since 2015, it has not been put to use. “I call on the state government and the state judiciary to identify and support this great man so that others can have the mind to follow suit. The donor, in his speech, said that Nigeria would be great if people in power used public funds for the benefit of the people. Maduka said that the scarcity of judges had hindered the take-off of judicial activities. “We had scarcity of judges and there were some petitions from some communities; but all that have been resolved now. “Now that the court is open and gazetted, I believe that judges will be sent there for judicial activities,” he said.  (NAN)