By Emmanuel Mogbede  Abuja –   The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has defended President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid, reiterating that he is fit and capable to run for second term in 2019, and lead the nation for another four years. The group said this in a statement signed by Mr Niyi Akinsiju and Mr Cassidy Maduekwe, its Chairman and Secretary, respectively, on Monday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the latest reaction may have been in response to a remark credited to U.S President Donald Trump in which he was reported in the latest edition of Financial Times to have referred to Buhari as “lifeless”. Trump’s remark was said to have been made after President Buhari’s official visit to the United States. The group stressed that President Buhari would not be distracted by the report, but would in his character, continue to remain focused on his mandate and delivering on his campaign promises to Nigerians. The group said that this was not the first time the American President made such derogatory remarks at leaders of other sovereign nations of the world. “It is, indeed, not the first time President Trump would be heard to lower the standards of respect for his colleagues on the world stage. “We are not surprised. We know that this age-long character of the U.S President would not change anytime soon, but it is important that we put it on record that President Buhari remains fit and sprightly, even for the next decade,” the group said. The BMO recalled Trump calling Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, “meek and mild” and his referring to German leader, Angela Merkel’s actions as “insane”, among others. It, however, noted that during President Buhari’s visit to Trump in the White House, he commended the successes the Buhari-led administration recorded, especially in the fight against insurgency and war on corruption. “The U.S President was full of admiration for Nigeria’s President during the visit. Thus, such outlandish remarks as reported by the Financial Times are not just to be taken with a pinch of salt, but are untrue in themselves,” it said. According to the group, while the recent 800 metre walk by President Buhari in his home town was not intended at showboating, it was an unscripted reference point that further proves a fit and lively President.  (NAN)