By Rita Iliya  Lavun (Niger) –   The Niger government on Tuesday commenced a 55 kilometres road construction in Kutigi-Darin-Tasha Hajiya under its rural roads rehabilitation in Lavun Local Government Area of the state. Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger flag off the project, which was part of the second phase of the Rural Roads Mobility Project (RAMP) in the state. Bello explained that the project would expand and interlink rural communities as well as allow the communities have access to basic service. “The road target to improve the capacity of the farmers to purchase inputs and sell products competitively,” he said. The governor added that lack of access road was responsible for increased cost of transportation, adding that this also affects access to market and service. “Farmers experience difficulties of sourcing and transporting key inputs such as seeds and fertilizers to the farms and evacuating their harvests to the local and regional markets. “Significant part of perishable products are lost or damaged on transit,” he added. Bello assured the people that government would continue to pay it’s counterpart fund for donor-fund projects in the state. Also, Alhaji Haruna Dukku, the state Commissioner of Agriculture and Rural Development, said that the road would improve transport condition and bring about sustainable access road to the people of the area. He added that the road would provide linkages among communities and improve economic and social activities of the people in the area. In his address, Alhaji Ubandoma Ularamu, National Coordinator, RAMP, said that the project was part of the 403 kilometres of rural roads under phase two being constructed and rehabilitated in the state. He said that a total of 579 kilometre roads and 30 river crossings were being constructed across the state to provide rural dwellers with accessible roads to markets and hospitals. Ularamu noted that all roads and river crossings constructed would be maintained through a sustainable maintenance agreement through the creation of a funding agency. “The World Bank is very passionate about this and we are working together to realise the road fund agency,” he said.  (NAN)