By Ihechinyere Chigemeri-Uwom Umuahia –  The Abia Government has selected two hundred and ninety primary healthcare centres to benefit from the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund, a Federal Government initiative, Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu has said. Ikpeazu made this known at a special party held in Umuahia for the elderly people of Abia. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was organised by the state government in collaboration with Vicar Hope Foundation and Tender Loving Care, both Non Governmental organisations. The governor, who was represented by the state Commissioner for Health, Dr John Ahukanna, said that the identified primary healthcare centres would propagate the initiative. He said that the state government was committed to evolving programmes aimed at improving healthcare services in the state. According to him, the programme is designed to provide access to healthcare services in various communities and would greatly boost the state government’s efforts in the health sector. “By the time this policy gets off the ground, one could walk into the primary health centre and get good quality healthcare. “Those above 70 years need special care and the state government intends to sustain the ongoing free House Healthcare Programme for the elderly. “We want to extend the life expectancy of the people of Abia and the state government is working to ensure that medicare is free for the vulnerable in the state,” Ikpeazu said. In his speech, Chief Emelike Osondu, the founder of Tender Loving Care, said that his organisation, with the support of the Abia Government, was currently operating a free House Healthcare service for the elderly. Osondu said that the programme was designed to reduce the hurdle of visiting a hospital for medical treatment. He said that the programme was designed to ensure that elderly people in the state, particularly the hinterland, were given proper healthcare by qualified medical practitioners. In his remark, Mr Innocent Nwanganga, a farmer, commended the state government for its efforts toward enhancing healthcare, describing the move as a welcome development. Nwanganga said that the benefits of such programmes were enormous and appealed to the state government to sustain its supportive programmes for the elderly. NAN reports that the wife of the governor, Mrs Nkechi Ikpeazu, and top dignitaries attended the party which also featured free medical treatment as well as the distribution of gift items. (NAN)