By Abiemwense Moru Abuja – Parliamentary Democrats Group (PDG) in the House of Representatives has cautioned All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in the House against distracting lawmakers from their legislative functions with their 2019 ambitions. The group also warned the caucus against toying with the idea of impeaching the Speaker, Mr Yakubu Dogara, saying it would be resisted such attempt “with fire’’. The group gave the warning in a statement by its spokesman, Rep. Timothy Golu, in Abuja on Thursday. It said that the PDG had followed with consternation, series of accusations and counter-accusations of support groups among the APC caucus in the lower chamber. “We believe that it is the aftermath of the gale of defections that had hit the APC in recent times, of which more are being expected that is affecting the members. “However, any issue that concerns the larger house will not cease to get our attention, especially the accusation by one group that another group is contemplating the impeachment of the speaker,” it stated. The group said, “We want to warn that such discussions should start and end at the APC secretariat or the secretariats of the various APC house groups. “We are keeping our eyes and ears wide open for any such eventuality and to restate our readiness to return fire for fire on anyone thinking of it. “If they claim that someone is thinking of becoming speaker in 2019 when the current tenure has not ended, it will not be out of place to suspect such motives. “This is especially so when the same people have been talking strongly on the urgent need to address critical legislative issues”. It maintained that Dogara was on top of his job, saying “he has been doing excellently well, respecting his colleagues and leading with the fear of God and in accordance with the Constitution and our house rules. “He has performed very well in providing the expected legislative leadership. If anyone is thinking of replacing him even when this tenure is not yet ended, then it means a lot may be happening underground”. It called on “our colleagues leading various splinter groups in the APC to allow the House to go on smoothly until June 9, 2019 or thereabout. “We do not want the externally-influenced distraction taking place in the red chamber where some anti-democratic forces want to truncate democracy, to happen in the House. “As true democrats, we are at alert, keeping vigilance and monitoring happenings with eagle eye wherever they are.”  (NAN)