By Chimezie Anaso Awka –  Eleven persons from Anambra, including seven males, three females and one traditional ruler are set for the first phase of Digital Entrepreneurship and Business training trip to China. The people selected for the training under the sponsorship of Chief Ifeanyi Ubah, Chairman, Capital Oil and Gas Group, will depart on Oct. 13 for China. The youths are participants at the DigiPreneur Mentoring Moment organised by the Office of Special Assistant to Gov. Willie Obiano on Youth Empowerment and Digital Entrepreneurship held in Awka. The youths who emerged after a lucky deep include, Miss Chinelo Enukora, Mr Uchenna Okafor , Mr Valentine Aladi, Miss Vera Abana and Mr Jeremiah Onyedikachukwu. Others are Miss Miracle Chukwujekwu, Mr Okpala Chukwuma, Mr Gabriel Nnadume, Mr Chizelim Ogbogu and Mr Deliverance Ezenwegbu. HRH Emeka Ilouno, Traditional Ruler of Ifitedunu, in Dunukofia Local Government Council would also be part of the team. Speaking to newsmen in Awka on Tuesday, the governors aide, Mr Ifeanyi Aniagoh, said the training would be fully funded by Chief Ifeanyi Ubah, Chairman of Capital Oil and Gas Group. Aniagoh said that Ubah was the guest at the seminar as mentor for the month of August and was partnering with his office by way of providing the opportunities for the youth. He said the training would enable the youth to explore the opportunities in the digital world and equip them with necessary skills to fit into the nation’s promising economy of the Information Communications Technology. “We had our August Mentoring Moment and it was great; DigiPreneur Mentoring Moment is a programme we designed to awaken the minds of youths on the opportunities on the social media. “Unfortunately, most youths spend most part of the day on the social media without any benefit, so, we are opening their eyes to the immense wealth they can make in the ICT world. “So, Chief Ifeanyi Ubah who was the mentor of the month, provided opportunity to 10 lucky youths to go to China for business training, they are being prepared to become entrepreneurs,” he said. He said his office distributed digital tools to some people, while a total of 2,600 youths have been trained. Aniagoh thanked Obiano for providing robust space for youths to pursue their aspirations while urging those who have had the opportunity to make use of it. (NAN)