By Omuboye Sukubo  Kula    –    Stakeholders in education in Kula and Idama communities, Akuku-Toru Local Government Areas of Rivers, on Tuesday commended Newcross Exploration and Production Ltd, an oil and gas firm for initiating scholarships. Chief Teme Slink of Sara Royal House of Kula Kingdom in Akuku-Toru LGA told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kula that the decision by the of NewcrossEP to award scholarships was noble. Slink also commended the company for taking bold step to conduct test for the secondary school category in the oil bearing communities. “What the company did is fantastic; it is my first time of seeing scholarship test being conducted in Kula. “ I am seeing this kind of thing happening to Kula people, if this continues, I believe that as a community, our relationship with NewcrossEP will be cordial. “As a Chief of Kula Kingdom, I am very happy to see and monitor the process as the test for the secondary school students was conducted peacefully,’’ he said. He also commended the oil firm for adopting existing sharing formula in Kula in distributing the quota due for the kingdom to the various communities. The chief urged the Newcross EP to continue its good works and to also take up more responsibilities for the development of the area. Mr Gift Captain-Dodo, Chairman, Education Committee of Idama Community Development Committee (CDC) in Akuku-Toru LGA, said before now, students from the community travelled to Port Harcourt for interview or write test for scholarships. Captain-Dodo said that Newcross EP initiative to conduct test for the secondary category of its maiden edition of scholarship was a welcome development. He expressed the optimism that the conduct of the test in the community would instil transparency and trust, adding that no one would be accused of manipulating the process. “Those days that Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) was awarding the scholarship, parents accused members CDC of selecting their relations but now it is open to the community. “All the Junior Secondary School two students wrote the test and only those that passed will be awarded the scholarship,’’ he said. Captain-Dodo commended the oil-firm for targeting students attending schools in the host communities, adding that such would encourage the growth of the education in the community. The Chairman, however, stated that the quota allowed to the community was far too small, compared to the number of students that sat for the test. He urged the company to increase the number in its subsequent year. The chairman also called for help to renovate dilapidated educational infrastructure in the community. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that tests for the secondary school category were conducted in the communities except for three communities that had theirs in Port Harcourt. The test for the undergraduate and post-graduate categories of the scholarship would be on Aug. 18, at the Elechi Amadi Polytechnic, Port Harcourt.