By Nicholas Obisike  Enugu   –      The Chairman of Ingas FC of Ngwo, Anthony Azubuike on Sunday hailed the organisers of the Enugu State Football League concluded on Saturday. Ingas on Saturday defeated Inter FC of Newlayout 7-6 on penalties in the final after a 1-1 draw at regulation time to emerge the champions of the 2018 edition of the league. The league was organised by the Enugu Football Association (FA) and sponsored by Ndubuisi Young Company known as “YKC company’’. Speaking to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Sunday, Azubuike expressed joy over the club’s defeat of their local rivals. “I am glad that the 2018 league ended on a good note and all credit should go to the good organisation by the FA. “Our qualification to the final was at a time halted but thank God that the organisers know the rules well and that made us to reach the final. “We lost to Greater Liberation at the semi-finals but they were disqualified owing to their use of three ineligible players against us. “With this, there is hope for teams that will participate in the upcoming league knowing full well that it is being handled by professionals,’’ he said. He expressed satisfaction with the team’s victory, saying that it was reward for hardwork. “Our mission this year has not come to an end as we are going to prepare well and do the state proud at the Nationwide League three plays off. “All the past years we have been qualifying, our programme has been colliding with the play-offs and we have to give priority to our programmes. “This time around, we are going to give the play-offs 100 percent attention and ensure we made it to the nationwide league three next year,’’ he assured the club’s fans. Reacting to the game, Inter coach, Joseph Inya, said that his team lived up to expectation but lost to penalty shutout which was no man’s game. “The chances we missed during the match was what came back to hurt us. “Well, the 2018 was Ingas’ year and next year may be ours, besides there are lots of clubs we defeated on the way to the final, so we have taken the defeat in good faith,’’ Inya said. NAN also reports that Ingas was rewarded with N100, 000 cheque and a trophy donated by YKC Company.