By Adepote Arowojobe Ikorodu (Lagos S)  –  Mr Sanai Agunbiade, the Majority leader, Lagos State House of Assembly (LSHA), on Wednesday disbursed N20 million to market women, artisans and transporters in Ikorodu. Agunbiade distributed the seed-money to beneficiaries across the 17 wards in his constituency while giving account of his stewardship tagged, “Conviction for Greater Impact”. The lawmaker said the intervention was to assist the beneficiaries to expand their capital base and develop their businesses. Agunbiade, who represents Ikorodu Constituency 1, commended the people for their loyalty and support as their representative and promised to do more if re-elected. “This is about the last account of stewardship before the primaries and the general elections and that is why we have decided to improve on what we have been doing. “This is the 8th edition of our empowerment programme for both men and women. Although we have been using banks but now with Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) in place, we have N20 million to disburse for empowerment through it,” he said. Agunbiade listed his achievements as the annual youth empowerment and skill acquisition, sponsoring the property protection law to deal with the menace of land grabbers (Ajagungbales) and saving over 1000 houses from demolition at Lambo Lasunwon, Aribila and Parafa communities. Others are facilitating the construction of many roads such as Awolowo road, Isawo-Arepo, Solomade place street. Agunbiade also said he had given out interest-free loans to market women and men as well as the Community Development Associations. According to the lawmaker, about 15 transformers have been given to some communities in the area. Also speaking on the occasion, the Ayangbure of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, commended the lawmaker for effective representation and quality legislation and urged him to do more. The monarch noted that the empowerment programmes had impacted the lives of people positively and urged beneficiaries to continue to use the money judiciously. “You can see that he has been following the footsteps of Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode and I think he has done well.” Mrs Bablola Modupe, one of the beneficiaries, thanked the lawmaker for the financial assistance and promised that they would utilise the money to boost their businesses. Mr Egbunike Isaac, another beneficiary, commended the lawmaker for reaching out to other tribes irrespective of their religious persuasions. NAN reports that out of the N20 million, N10 million was given out to the market women and men, while N5 million was doled out for equipment for artisans and another N5 million for transporter. At the well attended event, Agunbiade declared his intention to run for the fourth time. (NAN)