By Stephen Adeleye Ejiba (Kogi) –   An NGO, Princess Falade Ademujimi Iyalode Youth & Women Empowerment Programme (PFAIYWEP), has spent over N15 million to empower 42 youths, women and vulnerable people living in abject poverty. The Founder of the NGO, Princess Florence Falade, disclosed this at the 10th Anniversary Celebration of her Chieftaincy title as the “Iyalode of Ejiba Land” on Saturday in Ejiba, Yagba West LGA, Kogi. The Princess, who is also the Yeye-Laje of Okun Land, said that the gesture was to lessen the suffering of the jobless youths, women and vulnerable people living in abject poverty in the society. “I have lived all my life in UK, but I thought deeply on how to assist poor people back home in Nigeria. In 2008, I decided to be donating 500 bags (50kg) of rice quarterly across Yagba, during Easter, Yam festival and Christmas celebrations. “We spend about N15 million yearly to empower the poor across Yagba land in skills acquisition, giving out tools, equipment, and foodstuffs. “Today, we are also giving Certificate of Competence to 42 less privilege youths, who had been trained for three months on bead making and were empowered. “We have trained hundreds of youths and empowered them to have their own businesses and become employers of labours. Some will also be trained on Adire attire. “We have also given cash donation of N20, 000 to empower traders and artisans in groups which comprise of 20 people per group. “I hate to see people suffering; I love assisting and putting smiles on people’s faces especially the less privileged. “We are focusing on the jobless youths, donating foodstuffs to women, widows, physically challenged persons, orphans among others, “You can buy bead materials of N5, 000 to design a product that you can sell for N12, 000, and N4, 000 materials and sell the designed products for N10, 000 to N11, 000,” Falade said. She promised to establish a vocational and technical training Institute in Yagba, fully equipped to train people on various skills with competent trainers and instructors. “I have also sponsored and promoted many musicians from Okun land who are doing very well today.” She advised other privileged Nigerians to reach out to the less privileged no matter how small it might be, saying, “the best investment in life is human investment.” The princess, however, appealed to government at all levels to synergise and establish a vocational and skills acquisition centre in each local government across Nigeria. Dr Samuel Olamonjin, the Elejiba of Ejiba Land, commended the Princess for touching the lives of youths and women through her empowerment programmes. “We are showing our appreciation to the princess for her generosity and that we know her value in this community,” the monarch said. One of the beneficiaries, a Vulcaniser, who received a SuperHero Generator, Bamidele Bidemi, thanked the Princess for empowering him to start his vulcanizing work. “I learnt vulcanizing work for three years but I have no money to buy the generator to start on my own. I thanked our mummy for putting smile on my face, “Bidemi said. (NAN)