By Egbogota Clara  Lagos –   Nigerian youths have been urged to desist from unhealthy lifestyle such as abuse of drugs, as it can cause untimely death and serious health challenges. The President, Youth Orientation for Development (YOD), Ambassador Emmanuel Ejiogu, made the call at the 2018 International Youth Day in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that International Youth Day is celebrated annually on Aug.12 to promote better awareness of the World Programme of Action for Youths. Theme of the 2018 International Youth Day is entitled: “Safe Space for Youths’’. It was organised by the Youth Orientation for Development in collaboration with the Global Centre for Drug Eradication. Ejiogu said that there was no way our society could have a safe space for our youths, if they continue to indulge in drugs abuse. “Our theme this year is centered on drugs so as to create more awareness among our youths on the dangers of using drugs. “We are taking this awareness to schools; most of our schools have drug markets there. ” We see our youths coming with different types of drugs and many are victims of these drugs. “We also want to warn them on the dangers of taking drugs; some of the students have gone into crimes as a result of drugs. “We warning youths not to indulge themselves in using drugs,’’ he said. Also, Pastor Keji Hamilton, the President, Global Centre for Drug Eradication, said that the use of drugs have become an epidemic among our children. “There is no family that does not have at least one drug problem; it is just that a lot of families are still hiding it. “It has become so cheap that anybody can afford it. “We need a lot of awareness on the dangers of using drugs; lots of people are lured into drugs without them knowing the dangers. “When somebody tells you that drug can inspire you to write a good book, write a good music, it is not true; I am speaking from experience. “I use to think that I cannot play music without taking drugs,’’ he said. Speaking, Mr Euriel Momah, the Youth Director for YOD, said that use of drugs had become a matter of concern,
urging youths to be vanguards in helping to curb the menace. “I have spent more than 25 years working with youths. “If we want to have them to develop holistically, we will need to take them away from drugs “That is why we have designated today to enlighten them on the dangers of using drugs. “Most of the problems plaguing our nation today results from drugs; it is easy to use our youths as political thugs because of drugs. “We have two broad aims in mind to let them know the dangers of drugs and stay away from them, and to engage them to become vanguards in helping to curb the problems of drugs,’’ he said.