By Douglas Okoro  Abakaliki –   The Ebonyi Commissioner for Works and Transportation, Chief Fidelis Nweze says that the state government has spent over N33 billion in construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of federal roads in the state. Nweze disclosed this at a news conference in Abakaliki on Tuesday. He said that the amount was spent by the previous administration of Chief Martin Elechi and the present administration led by Gov. Dave Umahi. Nweze said that Ebonyi was among the states listed to benefit from the Federal Government refund of money spent on federal roads. “Between the last administration and this administration, we have committed about N33 billion in the construction of federal roads within the state. “This will be made available to the Federal Executive Council and the Senate. “We have defended that and that is why our state is among states listed for reimbursement on federal road interventions,” he said. Nweze said that the Umahi administration had recorded remarkable achievements in improving the road network. He said that the administration, in three years, had constructed no fewer than 78 roads, cutting across the 13 local government areas and Abakaliki, the state capital. Nweze noted that some of the roads were constructed using rigid (concrete) pavement to guarantee their durability. “We promised that we would do 15-kilometre road in each of the 13 LGAs when we assumed office and we have done 15-kilometre rigid pavement and has surpassed the number in some LGAs. “We have done over 75 per cent of the internal roads in the capital city and today, Ebonyi is a success story,” he said. He said that the Umahi-led government was committed to enhancing the road infrastructure of the state, in order to promote trade, investment and tourism in the state. The commissioner, who said that the state government had also exceeded what it promised the people in terms of road infrastructure, called on the media to x-ray the achievements. “When a Governor is doing well, we need to tell the people that he is doing well and when he is not doing well, we need to tell the people the truth. “The media is a link; a road through which a name can be made or destroyed. “When we praise the people who do well, there is this motivation to do more and other people will learn. “We should not just see the negative aspect of governance, we should equally see the positive aspect of governance.” The commissioner listed some of the roads built or reconstructed by the Umahi administration to include: 8.1-kilometre Amasiri /Edda /Okposi road; 21.1-kilometre Uburu /Amasiri road; 14-kilometre Nwiboko Obodo road; and 23-kilometre Ezzama /Oshiri / Onitcha. Others are: 25.4-kilometre Abomege/Ugwulangwu /Ukawu road,  23- kilometre Agbaja /Nwofe and 12.6-kilometre Okue /Nzerem /Ishiagu road. He disclosed that construction work would soon commence on the 16.4-kilometre Nkaliki /Orieuzo /Onueke road. Nweze also said that all outstanding roads in the state capital would be constructed by the second tenure of the administration. (NAN)