By Friday Idachaba  Lokoja,    –        Mr Femi Adesina, Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari is to further educate journalists on Election coverage at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Kogi State Council’s Press Week. Mr Momoh-Jimoh Adeiza, chairman of the council who disclosed this at a Press Conference on Wednesday in Lokoja said the presidential aide would present a paper at the Grand Finale of the Press Week in Lokoja on August 16. Adeiza said that Adesina who is a professional teacher in media matters, through his presentation on “The Media and News Reporting in an Election Year”, would address anomalies and salient issues in election coverage. He said that the NUJ was poised to contribute its quota to national development through programmes and activities including lectures, seminars and workshops that provide answers to national questions. In this regard, he said, the union had arranged for a management consultant, Dr John Alabi to talk on how best to harness potentials of the inland waterways for economic prosperity of Nigeria. Adeiza hinted that Prof. Stephen Ocheni, Minister of State for Labour and Productivity would chair the press week which would feature free medical treatment for children under the age of 15. He said that the state Commissioner for Health, Dr Saka Haruna would flag-off the free medical treatment which also include blood pressure checks and blood sugar screening for adults at the NUJ Press Center on Monday. A road show health-walk from NUJ press centre through Government House and Federal Medical Centre, Lokoja formed part of the week-long programme, he said. The chairman said that the press week would also feature fund raising and presentation of awards to personalities including Mr Femi Adesina; Prof. Seidu Ogah, DG NASRDA; Dr Rajab Naibi, an industrialist and Alhaji Haruna Yusuf, CSO to Edo State governor among others. Adeiza said the programme would commence on August 10, with a Friday Jumat Prayer and Sunday service on August 12.