By Jessica Dogo Abuja –   The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has approved five hundred and seventy two public and private schools for operations in the territory. FCT Secretary for Education, Isah Maina said this on Thursday in Abuja at the presentation of certificates to the newly accredited 140 schools, bringing the total number to 572. Maina noted that the newly-approved schools were based on the evaluation under four thematic areas, including physical facilities and environment; staffing and curriculum; academic activities and support services; and welfare. He said that the schools had met the extant requirements at the 11th and 12th batches accreditation exercise, which took place in September 2015 and September 2017. `A total of `78 schools applied for accreditation in the 11th batch out of which 61 schools were approved for full accreditation. “Out of the 133 schools that applied in the 12th batch, 79 were approved for full accreditation,’’ he said. Maina disclosed that schools that were unable to meet the requirements for full accreditation have another opportunity to present themselves again for the accreditation evaluation during the 13th batch accreditation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the approval is scheduled to take place in September. The Secretary, however, called on proprietors of private schools in FCT to live up to their responsibilities, in terms of the quality of services rendered to the public. He warned schools operating illegally, saying they would face the full wrath of the FCT Education Secretariat, by risking closure. NAN reports that 556 illegal private schools in FCT were closed down in 2016. In his remarks, the acting Director, Department of Quality Assurance, Malam Salihu Yahaya called on the approved schools to remember that the accreditation certification would require revalidation at regular intervals. He also called on the schools that were yet to secure approval to improve on their current standards, by working on the areas of weakness as identified by the body. On her part, the president of National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools, (NAPPS) in FCT, Olusola Bankole pledged the commitment of the association to ensure desired standards. Bankole, however, urged the FCT administration to assist them in providing a better level playing ground to meet government and citizens’ expectations.  (NAN)