By Martha Agas  Jos,   –       The United Nations (UN) programme on `Promoting the Engagement of Women in Security and Peace Processes` has facilitated the gazetting of the Gender Equal Opportunity (GEO) Law and the Child Rights Law among others in Plateau. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mrs Sewuese Surma, the Gender and Technical Advisor of UN Women in Plateau said that the achievements were recorded with the Plateau State Ministry for Women Affairs as lead partner and other implementing agencies. Surma told NAN on Wednesday in Jos that the programme also facilitated the launch of the 2nd Plateau State Action Plan (PSAP) on its peace architecture. “The 2nd PSAP on United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR )1325 was launched during the three year progamme of UN Women in Plateau. “ The Local Action Plans (LAPs) for Mangu, Riyom, Wase and Jos North Local Government Areas were also launched and translated into their indigenous languages of Berom, Aten, Afizere, Anaguta, Pyem, Mwagavul, Hausa and Tarok. “We ensured that the vulnerabilities of people living with disabilities are mainstreamed because the LAPs were also translated in Braille for the blind and sign language for the hearing impaired. “This is to ensure inclusiveness, understanding of the content and facilitate the engagement of rural women in the implementation of the UNSCR 1325 action plan,“ she said. The UN official explained that UNSCR 1325 hinges on gender parity at all levels of decision making and strives to strengthen women’s role in conflict prevention and peace building whilst mitigating the impact of conflict on women and girls. “UNSCR 1325 is premised on findings that women suffer most during conflicts, thus when engaged in security and peace building processes, peaceful coexistence devoid of conflict is guaranteed,“ she said. Surma said the programme had also facilitated the engagement of 112 women in the Plateau traditional councils. “ More than 1,000 women are now active part of the Women, Peace &amp Security structures across the 4 LGAs,“ she said. NAN reports that Plateau was the first State in Northern Nigeria to gazette the GEO Law and translate its LAPs on UNSCR 1325 in indigenous languages. The UN Women commenced implementation of the Women, Peace and Security Programme in 2015 and had its close out meeting on August 3 2018.