By Douglas Okoro  Abakaliki   –       A chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi, Mrs Modesta Nwogbaga, on Thursday in Abakaliki gave out cash and material gifts to a select group of indigent widows. Nwogbaga who is the Ebonyi Coordinator of Buhari/Osinbajo 2019 Campaign Initiative, said that the gesture was to appreciate the widows for their commitment and support for APC and the President Muhammadu Buhari’s led administration. The beneficiaries were drawn from the 13 local government areas of the state and the Hausa community. She said that the event was put together as part of celebrations to mark the Muslim festival of Eid el-Kabir and the ‘Ojiji’ New Yam festival of the Izzi people of Ebonyi. She said that the APC would continue to support indigent widows and the less privileged members of the party. She called on the women and other party faithful to register and collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) in order to re-elect Buhari in the forthcoming 2019 general elections as well as other APC candidates. She urged the widows and other party members to remain loyal and committed to the party, adding that APC would always give priority to issues affecting the women folk if elected into power in Ebonyi in 2019. She further urged them not to sell or exchange their PVCs irrespective of the circumstances or promises made to them. “Our Muslim brothers and sisters just celebrated their Eid el-Kabir which incidentally coincided with annual ‘Ojiji’ New Yam festival of the Izzi people of Ebonyi which marks their traditional calendar year. “We have called together our Muslim sisters who are indigent widows and widows who are members of our great party from the 13 local government areas of Ebonyi to celebrate these two great festivals with them. “This celebration showcases how much we love, support and cherish the down trodden in our midst. “We also appeal to you not to relent in your support for APC and the Buhari’s led Federal Government which has done so much in repositioning the country. “I urge all, especially those of you who are yet to collect your PVCs to go and get them to be able to vote Buhari and other APC candidates in 2019. “Don’t sell or exchange your PVCs, guard your voter cards jealously and ensure that you participate in choosing your next elected representatives in 2019, ” Nwogbaga said. The Ebonyi APC women leader, Mrs Marcellena Ugoeze-Uburu, who spoke, commended the coordinator for putting smiles on the faces of the indigent widows. She described the event as epoch making, adding that the gesture would further motivate the widows to continue with their support for APC and President Buhari. Chief Eze Nwachukwu, Ebonyi APC Chairman, in a goodwill message, commended Nwogbaga for organising the get-to-gather for the indigent widows. Nwachukwu called on other affluent members of the party to emulate Nwogbaga. “We thank you madam for celebrating with the widows in our midst and I want to use this medium to appeal to other affluent members to emulate your style. “Let me also appeal to the beneficiaries to remain loyal and supportive of the party. “Those of us who are yet to register or have registered but yet to pick their PVCs should go and get them. “APC is set and well repositioned for victory in the 2019 general elections in Ebonyi; you must be part of the success story, ” Nwachukwu said.
Fatima Garuba and Anthonia Uguru on behalf of other beneficiaries appreciated Nwogbaga for her gesture. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that various types of of wrappers and cash were distributed to the widows.