By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Human rights advocate and Protem Chairman of  New mega party, Trust Party, Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), has commended the Coalition of United Political Parties, (CUPP) for the swift step in setting up a formidable Steering Committee to pilot the rescue agenda of the coalition for Nigeria. Agbakoba gave the commendation in a statement signed by the Media Assistant of the Nigeria Intervention Movement (NIM) Mr Olubori Isah Obafemi The statement reads in full People’s Trust, PT led by eminent human rights advocate Olisa Agbakoba has saluted the Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP for their proactive and resourceful step in inaugurating a formidable Steering Committee to pilot the rescue agenda of the coalition for Nigeria. The Protem National Secretary of People’s Trust, PT, Malam Nasser Kura in a statement at the end of the CUPP ceremony on Thursday in Abuja said the swift step of parties in CUPP to set up a formidable structure will help the cause of the opposition in the 2019 elections and disclosed that his party, the People’s Trust has formally notified the newly inaugurated steering committee of its mandate to represent NIM in the coalition. Kura, who also doubles as the National Publicity Secretary of the Nigeria Intervention Movement, NIM, a movement popularly acclaimed to have in its fold over 5 million members, mostly youths and professionals, armed with permanent voter’s cards, PVC’s, further clarified that the initial involvement of the Nigeria Intervention Movement in CUPP was conceived from the outset to be tactical and temporary due to a twist created by a sudden shift in NIM previous political merger with Alliance for New Nigeria, ANN. Similarly, the leadership of People’s Trust rolled out a formal time table and schedule for its Congresses and national convention as follows: A. State Congresses: Friday 17th & Saturday 18th of August, 2018. B. Local Government Areas Congresses on Friday, 24th & Saturday 25th of August, 2018. C. Wards Congresses on Friday, 31st August & Saturday 1st September 2018. D. National Convention on Friday 7th & Saturday 8th September, 2018. In the meantime, Agbakoba, who is also the Leader of Nigeria’s biggest political movement in Nigeria Intervention Movement, NIM, a major convergence for Fresh breed, emerging political leaders of the Third Force Movement in Nigeria, has accepted to steer the rescue agenda of the newly consummated mega party for Nigeria; pledging to go all out to recruit and mobilise other credible political allies and aspirants across the length and breadth of the country to join forces with the new mega party for a resounding victory in the 2019 elections.  Signed Mr Olubori Isah Obafemi Media Assistant, NIM 