By Bridget Ikyado Daudu    –      Miss Avershima Akirghir, founder of Questaid, an Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), has trained more than 2,000 women and youths in different skills at the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp, Daudu, Makurdi. She told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the gesture was to enable the women and mostly girls to become self reliant, especially in the camp. She promised to empower more women, youths on the camp with skills to make them self reliant as part of activities to mark her birthday. According to her, the training intends to cover cake making through local means, chin-chin, puff-puff, doughnuts and buns. “I choose to train them in pastry making because I am good in pastries making and they are simple to make, can curb hunger easily; it has nutritional value and economic value. “You can make them and sell even in this camp and people will buy,” she said. “I have chosen today, my birthday to do this, I have brought all the ingredients needed and will teach them and share the remaining ones for them to keep and make use of thereafter,” she said. She donated bags of baking flour, eggs, groundnut oil, baking powder, yeast and butter to the women. Akirghir also gave out clothes, shoes, toiletries and cooked meals and drinks to the IDPs before the training. She said her aim was to encourage and inspire the IDPs, saying that no matter what they are going through they should believe and trust God for better days are ahead. Recalling her ordeal, Akirghir said: “I had an accident 15 years ago, precisely on the February 9, 2003, 6 months after my Secondary School at Gboko, Benue state and my leg was affected. “The leg got bad and amputation was the only solution to keep me alive. “To the glory of God, I am a graduate of B.A English, a baker, Executive Director of Questaid Foundation and the producer of a TV programme called ‘Possibility’. “I founded the NGO believing that there is ability in every disability, I didn’t want to beg or wait for any white collar job.” According to her, disability is a thing of the mind, and what challenged persons in the society needed are environment conducive and friendly society to operate. “I have enjoyed love and support for the past 15 years, as an amputee, and I feel it is time for me to also share love to the vulnerable group in the society.” Akirghir thanked all her donors and supporters, calling on the government to give priority to the needs of persons with disabilities. One of the beneficiaries, Mama Mnena Bur said that the support was an indication of the fact that the people of Benue were caring; she prayed for peace to reign in Benue. She pointed out that there could be no meaningful development in any society without peace. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that more than 5,000 IDPs from 6 villages in Guma Local Government Area are taking refuge in the camp. The camp was established by the state government after the January 2 attack on Guma Local Government where scores were killed and thousands were displaced.