By Stanley Nwanosike  Enugu,   –       A non-governmental organisation, Healthy Sense Initiative (HSI), says Nigerians, especially youths, who fail to vote in 2019 will lack the grounds to complain of bad leadership. “Politics has always been a game of numbers, which is domiciled in the youth as they are more than a half of Nigeria’s population,’’ the Founder of the group, Mr Chris Chukwu, said on Thursday. Chukwu spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu. He advised youths yet to register for PVC to take advantage of the extension of the registration. Chukwu said that youths should also take advantage of the passing and signing of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run Bill to be more active in politics and leadership. He described the law as one of the greatest steps taken by the current administration. “The signing of the bill shows that President Muhammadu Buhari and lawmakers believe in the Nigerian youth. “It is an opportunity for the youth to dominate their world. Every Nigerian youth should embrace the uncommon change in Nigeria politics. “It is time to get ready for the future, and the only way to do this is by getting involved and getting the PVCs. “Your vote is your voice. It is the only way to vote for whoever you want to represent you from councillors to the president,’’ he said. Also in an interview with NAN, a state house of assembly aspirant in Imo State, Mr Chijioke Uzomba, said that the Nigerian youth was ripe and ready for leadership and governance. Uzomba, who aspires to represent Ideato South Constituency on the platform of APC, advised youths to be focused and diligent and selfless as well as possess integrity and courage to be good leaders. The aspirant urged cooperation of all Nigerians to ensure that elections at all levels would be credible, peaceful, free and fair to place Nigeria on a strong pedestal for advancement. He advised Nigerians of voting age to ensure registration for PVC before its Aug. 31 deadline. NAN reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission extended the deadline from Aug. 17. Collection of PVCs will, however, continue until the last week of the 2019 General Elections.