By Wale Ojetimi Lagos –  An All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Chief Ismail Fagbemi, has advocated mandatory training and certification on party ideology for members seeking public office to stem the wave of defections among politicians. Fagbemi, who is Treasurer of APC, South Africa Chapter and House of Representatives aspirant for the 2019 elections, said such political education was critical to building a virile and strong party. “Before you can hold any elective or appointive post, you must have gone through training and be certified in party ideology to take that responsibility. “If you’re coming into our party, you must go through our training programme, pass the examination and get certified at different levels. “By then, you would have been inculcated with the ideals and ideology of the party. “With such training, people will understand that politics should have ideological base and not a do or die affair,” said Fagbemi, APC aspirant for the Iseyin, Itesiwaju, Iwajowa and Kajola Federal Constituency. Fagbemi said politicians who jumped from one political party to another lacked clear cut ideology and were only interested in fulfilling their personal and selfish interests. “This does not portend well for the advancement our democracy and it is affecting governance negatively because such politicians fail to imbibe party philosophy and values needed to serve the masses,” he said. He also urged the APC to establish a Progressives Business Forum (PBF) as the commercial arm of the party to assist in funding its activities. According to him, the proposed PBF is a forum of progressive businessmen who will form an alliance with the party. He commended the dexterity of Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, in sacking Lawal Daura, Director General, Department of State Service (DSS) over Tuesday’s invasion of the National Assembly. “Apparently, Daura has been handling the DSS with highhandedness. His sacking is,therefore, a welcome development which has been applauded by all well-meaning Nigerians. “We hope that we are going to move away from this type of military gestapo era where impunity hold sway. “We hope the new DSS leadership will shape up discipline and professionalism in the operation of the service. “This development is not good for democracy and rule of law and should be condemned by all, irrespective of party affiliation because we cannot in any guise justify illegality,” he said. The APC chieftain said that the incident should be thoroughly investigated and bring to book all principal actors to serve as deterrent to others involved in similar act of impunity. On the introduction of state police, Fagbemi said the nation was not ripe for its establishment as it could be abused by politicians. According to him, the nation is not mature for state or municipal police in view of the incessant inter agency rifts among various national military and paramilitary organisations. “All we need now is to strengthen the state police commands and put their control in the hands of the governors who are the chief security officers of their states,” Fagbemi said. (NAN)