By Cecilia Ijuo  Abuja –   The Nigeria Network of Non-Governmental Organisations (NNNGO), has condemned freezing of accounts of two states’ governments in the country. Speaking to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Friday, Executive Director of the group, Mr Oyebisi Oluseyi, said that such action was a ridicule of the country’s democracy. He acknowledged report of unfreezing of Benue Government’s account and called on Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to unfreeze the account of Akwa Ibom Government. Oluseyi said that freezing of the accounts were done without due process, adding that “We are worried about that issue. “If the account of state governments would be frozen without due process, those of us working in the civil society community would continue to oppose it. “While we have government in place that has been emphasising the rule of law, it is important we back this up with some level of action. “Although there are conflicting reports that the accounts were frozen or not frozen, we know that reports such as these are not good for civic space.” On recent blockade of the National Assembly, the executive director said it was shameful. He said that it was time for civil society organisations within and outside the country to rise up against shrinking civic space in the country, adding that undemocratic tendencies were threatening the sustenance of Nigeria’s democracy. According to him, such development is unhealthy and must be resisted by all, particularly civil society organisations. Oluseyi commended the Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, for rising to the occasion, and called for concerted efforts to end the weakening of democratic institutions in the country. He called on civil society organisations not to relent in monitoring activities of government with a view to ensuring that the right thing was done at all times. However, he advised them to resist being used by politicians to perpetrate selfish interest, adding that they should stand for the truth always, while holding public officers accountable. (NAN)