By Collins Yakubu-Hammer  Abuja,      –    A Nigerian author, Jude Feranmi, has urged artistes in the country to use their skills to sensitise the electorate against vote selling during elections. Feranmi, who authored the book, “Dogmatic of Real Change,’’ gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abuja. He said that arts could be used for political education, adding that there were literature today that focus on the political space for young people. “There are a lot of young people that have written books on political involvement aside technology; young people in the entertainment are also bringing in initiatives. “We have spoken word artistes; I would like them to use their talent to convince the electorate in Nigeria not to sell their votes in elections in the country. “By doing such, they will be contributing to electoral education and creating awareness on the dangers of vote selling. “ This will go a long way to improve the sanctity of the political space in Nigeria. “I also believe that other forms of arts can be used to dissuade voters from selling their votes during election,’’ he said. On the `Not Too Young to Run Law’, the former National Youth Leader of KOWA Party, said it was an opportunity for young people who are capable to contest for political positions. According to him, the challenges that young people are facing now is financial barrier as politics involves a lot of money. He, however, said that young people have the energy needed to change the country. “Nigerians are tired of the routine way established political parties give money and incentives for votes. “Citizens want change even though that word has been bastardised, they want positive change. “So the idea is to get young candidates for elections to go down into their constituencies, strategise and raise finances to facilitate the processes. “However, the process does not mean vote buying but rather campaigns and logistics. “By and large, entertainers in the country should see voters’ sensitisation and awareness creation as part of their political obligation to the country,’’ he said.