By Adebisi Fatima Shittu Ibadan –   An Iyaganku Chief Magistrates’ court sitting in Ibadan on Monday sentenced one Samson Ibeawuchi, 28, to two years’ imprisonment for converting a company’s N205, 157, 33k to his personal use . He was also convicted for stealing a cell phone given to him by his employer to aid him in discharging his official duty. The chief magistrate, Mrs Kehinde Omotosho, however, gave the convict an option to pay N70, 000 as fine. She found Ibeawuchi guilty on both counts of converting a company’s money to his personal use and stealing cell phone given to him by his employer. Omotosho said, “The convict is found guilty of the offences, hence, he was sentenced to two years’ imprisonment to be served at the Federal Prisons, Agodi.’’ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the convict, however, was led to the prisons because he was unable to pay the N70, 000 fine. Earlier, the prosecutor, ASP Samad Aliu, had told the court that the convict had between January and April, 2016 obtained goods valued at N161, 157,33k from Estfrans Venture Ltd. He obtained the goods under the pretext that he would sell and pay its proceeds into the company’s account. “Being a sales representative of Estfrans Ventures Ltd., Ibeawuchi was supplied goods worth N161, 157,33k; but after selling them, he converted the money into his personal use without the company’s consent. “The mobile phone given to him by the company to aid his work valued at N44, 000 was also stolen by him,” the prosecutor told the court. He said that convict stole items worth N205, 157, 33k from Estfrans Ventures Ltd. of No.17, Akintoye Way, Ijokodo area of Ibadan. Aliu had also told the court that the convict defied his employer’s instruction of daily record-keeping and remittance of proceeds from sales at the close of work. According to the prosecutor, the convict confessed during police investigations to have committed the offences. Aliu said the offences contravened Sections 390 (9) and 419 of the Criminal Code Can 38, Vol.II, Laws of Oyo State, 2,000.  (NAN)