By Yakubu Uba  Yola –  Gov. Muhammadu Bindow of Adamawa said his administration had stepped up cultivation of farmland in the state from 232, 000 hectares to 1.15 million hectares. Bindow made this known Friday in a statement signed by his Special Assistant, Media and Publicity, Mr Macauley Hunohashi in Yola. Hunohashi quoted the governor as reacting to criticism by the opposition over the performance of the state All Progressives Congress (APC) led- government in the state. “History will be kind to this administration as the only government that considered it as a necessity to purchase 150 tractors, among others, to boost agriculture. “The development has stepped up cultivation of farmlands from 232,000 hectares in 2015 to 480,000 hectares in 2016 and catapulted to 1.15 million hectares in 2017,“ he said. Bindow also said that his administration, which paid salary as at when due also completed 392 roads across the state with 500 box culverts. He said the achievement of the state government under his watch also completed five major bridges in 18 out of the 21 local government areas of the state. The governor the effort had drastically reduced flooding in the state. He said that the declaration of state of emergency on education and health sectors by his administration had led to the renovation of many schools and hospitals across the state. “When the present administration took over in 2015, Adamawa can best be described as a ‘failed state’ with prevailing atmosphere of despondency. “Not only were civil servants owed seven months salary arrears, but also basic infrastructure such as road network, modern drainage system, support to farmers were alien to the good people of Adamawa.” He said his government also ensured modern healthcare delivery, potable water supply and focus on education among others. “We have demystified governance by setting the bar in our determination to reconnect with the people of Adamawa state. “Our projects are tangible and we are taking pragmatic steps to consolidate on our gains. He said he would not be deterred in his effort to consolidate and do more for the people of the state. Bindow, however, urged the people to be wary of politicians who engaged in whipping sentiments to blackmail his administration, instead of dealing issues that would develop the state. (NAN)