By Stellamaris Ashinze  Lagos   –     Mr Adeniyi Ojikutu, the President, Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN), on Wednesday urged members of the body at the Computer Village in Lagos State to embrace peace and work in unity. Ojikutu told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that his plea was occasioned by the recent agitation among some of its members on modalities for election of the association’s executives. NAN reports that some of the CAPDAN members are agitating for the tenure of the association’s incumbent president to be two years instead of three years, and that the election should be open to all traders at the village. The CAPDAN president said that the three-year tenure of the association’s current executives was based on an agreement midwifed by the Civil Engagement Department of the Lagos State Government (LASG), which also states that the association’s presidency should be rotational. “We had an agreement with the Civil Engagement Department, Lagos State Government that the executives’ tenure will be three years and rotational. “This is for the interest of the association; it is to enable equal representation among all ethnic groups in computer village so that there will be peace in the market. “We are a group of professional bodies in the Information and Communication Technology business and should behave as such, not like roadside traders,’’ Ojikutu said. He said that the issue of allowing all traders in the market the opportunity to vote in the election was not tenable as it would marginalise other ethnic groups. “The dominance of a particular tribe at the computer village is a known fact, and allowing a free-for-all election could lead to the marginalisation of other ethnic groups in the market. “We have agreed that the traders will send delegates to represent them at the election. “All these are measures put in place to ensure continual peace in the market, so that we will not go back to the unruly days. “I am not going to be here forever because I have other aspirations. “I want to leave a legacy of peace and unity for members to continue to enjoy and will do all it takes to ensure its sustenance,” Ojikutu said. He assured that there would definitely be an election and handing-over according to the signed documents at the civic engagement, before he stepped down as CAPDAN president. Ojikutu told NAN that because of his other aspirations, he would be relinquishing the association’s presidency by November 2018, instead of 2019. He pleaded for the understanding and contribution of all members in ensuring peace in the market. NAN reports that Ojikutu became president of CAPDAN in 2016.