By Chibuike Nwabuko  Abuja (Sundiata Post) – National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) Prince Uche Secondus has called on the United Kingdom to expel President Muhammadu who is hiding in that country to plan the undermining of democracy in the country.  The National Chairman who said that Britain should not allow its environment to be used as a haven for anti-democracy conspirators, disclosed this in a statement signed by his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi on Tuesday. According to secondus, the President left the country to UK for 10 days medical leave to enable the nefarious activities they lined out against democracy be executed in his absence.  He said that the final plan for the invasion of National Assembly was concretized when the minority leader Senator Godswill Akpabio visited the President in London at the weekend.  According to Prince Secondus the siege in National Assembly leaves no one in doubt that President Muhammadu Buhari and his ruling APC are out to destroy this hard earned democracy all because they can no longer fit into it.  “Democrats all over the World do not need any further evidence to show that President Buhari and APC have suspended democracy and are now running a draconian administration, Secondus said.  “When an executive arm in a democratic setting muscles up other arms of government, the correct name for such administration is autocracy and dictatorship.  He continued: “Nigerians and international community have continuously watched this administration, harass and intimidate the legislature and Judiciary as well as others in opposition in their bid to create a dictatorial regime.  “All over the World, the parliament is the bastion of democracy and rule of law anybody not willing to alien himself to them is trying to create anarchy in the land.  Prince Secondus said that the actions of the security agencies this morning clearly shows a drowning man who is totally alienated from happenings around his environment and suddenly wants to survive when the ship is already wrecked.  The National Chairman however saluted the courage of the Vice President in sacking the Director General of the DSS, Lawan Daura to show that Nigeria cannot be hijacked and ruled by cabals. But called on President Buhari to resign and pave way for the sustenance of democracy since it is now obvious that he has lost legitimacy to continue as an elected President.  Prince Secondus said that no amount of intimidation and harassment will deter lovers of democracy from pushing for the extinction of this wicked regime.  He noted that Nigerians passed through this route before in their struggle to restore democracy in this country and the will of the people and that of the almighty prevailed and this time cannot be an exception.  “We are aware that when a regime exhausts idea of what to do and loses the legitimacy that brought it to power, it could be dangerous like a bull in China shop but truth is that Nigeria will survive this regime and laugh last.  In a similar development, the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) has described the sack of the Director General, Lawal Daura as a subterfuge, insisting that the invasion by the DSS and Police was with the absolute knowledge and approval of President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Osinbajo, and the All Progressives Congress (APC).  The PDP which said that Daura’s sack was an afterthought, diversionary and deceitful, reminded that it issued series of statements at the weekend alerting Nigerians of the plots against the National Assembly and democracy ahead of President Buhari’s overseas trip, noting that the Presidency was silent on all the alarms raised.  In a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said the Presidency’s sack of Daura was a damage-control stunt and a knee-jerk gimmick which came as a response to the national and international outcry against the armed invasion of our legislature by security agents as directed by the Buhari Presidency.  Stressing that the action of security agents that blocked the National Assembly is treasonable and must attract appropriate sanctions under our law.  The party which said that it is not enough to take populist approach of easing Daura out of office, demanded immediate investigation by an independent panel of inquiry headed by a retired Chief Justice of Nigeria to examine the remote and immediate cause of the invasion.  PDP reminded that Section 16 of the Legislative House (Powers and Privileges) Act, 2017, provides that any person, who by any act, obstructs members of the National Assembly from performing their legislative duties, is liable and punishable by imprisonment.  The party also observed that the invasion was not only by the DSS, but also had the involvement of the Police, whose high command has not received any sanction or reprimand by the Presidency for its serial acts of impunity.  It therefore commended the federal lawmakers, Nigerians, the media as well as the international community who rose in defence of our democracy. 