By Polycarp Auta  Mangu   –   A Non Govermental Organisation ( NGO), has donated relief materials to 297 households of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) taking refuge in four camps in Mangu local government area of Plateau. The NGO, Justice Development and Peace Commission (JDPC), made the donation on Sunday, in Pleateau in collaboration with Mission 21 and Lifeline Compassionate Global Initiative The Items donated include; 522 bags of rice, 100 bags of maize, 58 bags of Beans, six bales of blankets and six bales of Mosquito nets. Others were 14 bales of mats, toiletries, sanitary pads and beverages, among others. At the Pushit Camp, where the leader of the IDPs there, Mr Dan Putmang, expressed delight at the support and goodwill they have been receiving from NGO and well-meaning people in the society “Where we are staying is not conducive but we have been receiving assistance from well-meaning Nigerians and government agencies. “ We are calling on government at all levels to restore peace to the affected areas to enable us return home,’he stressed. While at the Mangu central mosque IDPs Camp, which was second point of call,Alhaji Saidu Abdullahi,who received the items, charged government to develop a mechanism that would enable them rebuild their burnt houses. He called for more deployment of security personnel to quell further attacks. While presenting the relief items to the leaders in the camps during the visit ,Rev. Fr. Basil Kassam, JDPC coordinator of Pankshin Catholic Diocese, said the gesture was to cushion the hardships being experienced by the displaced persons. He said no amount of items donated could replace the ones lost, adding that the donation was aimed at ameliorating their plights. “There is no amount of money or quantity of materials given to you that can replace all that you have already lost. “But as a humanitarian organisation, we deem it necessary to mobilise funds and materials just to come and support you. “None of you prepared for what you are going through, and so only help from spirited individuals and groups can provide succour. “So, our coming today is to identify with you and let you know that we share in your pains, ” he said. Kassam who prayed for the return of peace to the affected communities, to enable the displaced persons return to their original abodes, urged them to be prayerful and peaceful at all times. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the camps visited include: COCIN Church Rampiya and Mangu Halle Primary school, all in the locality.