By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –   Former Governor of Lagos State and national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has narrated what would have happened to the Senate President, Bukola Saraki had he remained in the All Progressives Congress (APC). Tinubu informed that Saraki would not have been able to reclaim his senate seat let alone the senate presidency under the platform of APC is he had remained in the party. Adding to the APC leader, Saraki resorted to joining the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) because he lusts for presidency but was promised a return ticket to his position in the senate. He disclosed this on Sunday when he took to his twitter handle @AsiwajuTinubu and said: “If Saraki had remained in the APC, he would be unable to reclaim his Senate seat let alone the Senate Presidency. He thus bolted because he lusts for the presidency but was promised by the PDP, at least, a return to his position in the Senate”. Recall that Bukola Saraki emerged the president of the Senate against the anointed candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Majority of the senators who voted him were of the People’s Democratic Party extraction with few APC members while other party members were at the International Conference Centre (ICC) holding a meeting. Since his emergence as Senate President, the APC-led federal government has taken deliberate steps to unseat Saraki. Sundiata Post recalls that the Code of Conduct Bureau, on September 11, slammed a 13-count charge of corruption on Mr. Saraki, accusing him of offences ranging from anticipatory declaration of assets, to false declaration of assets in forms he filed before the Bureau while he was governor of Kwara State. The tribunal in 2017 acquitted Saraki on all the charges and discharged him but the court of Appeal sustained three of the counts in the charges after an appeal by the prosecution, and referred them back to the the tribunal for retrial. However, the Supreme Court on Friday 6th, July 2018 discharged and acquitted the Senate President, Bukola Saraki saying he has no case to answer. Having surmounted all the plot to remove him, Senate President Bukola Saraki on 31st July 2018 dumped the All Progressives Congress and pitched tent with the  Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP). Saraki’s defection followed the dissolution of the Kwara State executive of All Progressives Congress (APC). The dissolution was alleged to have been a move by the party to dislodge Saraki and his loyalists in the scheme things in the party in particular and state in general.