By Peter Ejiofor  Sagamu (Ogun)   –     Nestlé Nigeria Plc on Wednesday inaugurated two community water projects in Sagamu, Ogun, as part of its efforts at improving the people’s livelihoods. The water facilities, located at Tollgate and Oke Bere, PofoluOloro communities, were carried out in collaboration with Royal Initiative for the Development of Sagamu Community (RIDSCo). Mr Korede Safiriyu, Head of Administration, Sagamu Local Government Area who represented the Local Government Chairman, said the people were grateful to Nestlé Nigeria for collaborating with RIDSCo to provide the source of water. “This site has been designated as the new location for Oba Ewusi International Modern Market. “Water supply is a critical resource in view of the size of population when the project is completed. We are very grateful that Nestlé and RIDSCo have met this need already,’’ he said. Also, the Iya l’Oja of Oba Ewusi market thanked Nestlé saying: “We are very excited about this borehole because before now, we used to pay a lot of money to get water. “As we all know, without water, we can do nothing.’’ Nestlé Nigeria restated the company’s focus on improving livelihoods in the communities where it operates. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the company has developed three commitments encapsulated in its core purpose of “enhancing quality of life and contributing to a healthier future’’. “The first is helping Nigerian families to lead healthier lives, the second is working alongside stakeholders and partners to improve livelihoods, and the third, providing access to clean drinking water in its host communities. “It is in line with this third commitment that Nestlé collaborated with RIDSCo to provide access to one of the basic necessities of life — clean and safe drinking water to the Sagamu community. “This is one of the ways in which Nestlé creates shared value,’’ said Mrs Victoria Uwadoka, Nestlé Nigeria’s Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager. “Nestle believes that the company will create long-term sustainable value for its shareholders if it also creates value for the communities where it operates. “Our success has been, and always will be tied to our respect for the environment and the people we work with. “In line with this focus, we work alongside partners like RIDSCo, to contribute to the society while ensuring the long-term success of our company. “This principle is called Creating Shared Value (CSV) and it is embedded in every aspect of the Nestlé’s business,’’ she said. She said that over the years, Nestlé had built various drinking water facilities around its factories located in Agbara, Ogun, and Abaji in the Federal Capital Territiry. “These water fountains channel 7,117,500 litres of clean potable water annually to over 5,800 people in the communities closest to Nestlé’s factories. “The same source of water which goes into the production of Nestlé Pure Life goes into these communities.’’ Contributing, Nestlé Flowergate Factory Manager, Mr Ibukun Ipinmoye, said: “We are here today, to demonstrate again our strong commitment to improving livelihoods in the communities where we operate. “We are confident that these two water projects at the Tollgate and Oke Bere, Pofolu-Oloro will go a long way towards improving the lives of the people within the Sagamu community.’’ Dignitaries and stakeholders as well as representatitives of the projects beneficiaries were at the inauguration. Nestlé Nigeria Plc began simple trading operations in Nigeria in 1961 and has today grown into a leading food manufacturing and marketing company. Nestlé Nigeria is the biggest food company in West Africa. Nestlé Nigeria employs around 2,400 people and has three world class factories.