By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Former Minister of Aviation and chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party,  (PDP) Femi Fani-Kayode, has been summoned by the Nigeria Police to appear before it for fact-finding over alleged “conspiracy, criminal and inciting publication”. Mr Fani-Kayode, has remained a vocal critic of the Buhari administration, despite facing corruption charges brought against him by the federal government. Sundiata Post recalls that the former minister regularly posts critical comments about the government on social media.. According to Premium Times, the police invitation was contained in a letter dated August 20 with Ref. No CR/3000/IGP.SEC/MU/T.G/ABJ Vol.54/226 and signed by Habu A. Sani, Commissioner, IGP Monitoring Unit. The police ordered Mr Fani-Kayode to make himself available before Usman Garba, a superintendent of police, for questioning on August 28 on a “fact-finding mission”. The letter reads: “This office is investigating the above-mentioned case reported to the Inspector-General of Police in which your name featured. In view of the above, you are requested to interview the undersigned through SP Usman Garba on 28/08/2018 by 10.00hrs to shed light on the allegations raised. You are to, however, note that the invitation is purely for fact findings and your cooperation in this regard is highly solicited, Please.” The police however, refused to state which of the former minister’s publications they are investigating. Meanwhile, Mr Fani-Kayode confirmed the invitation via his official Twitter handle. Also, when contacted, he said he got the invitation on Friday afternoon and has consulted his lawyers. However, it is not clear what views the police now consider as inciting. Sundiata Post recalls that on the dated day of the police invitation letter, Fani-Kayode made couple of posts on his twitter handle @realFFK. In the tweets, he reminded that he was the first to expose the Muslim/muslim ticket planned by APC in 2019 and also condemned the arrest and detention of IPOB women by the security forces in Owerri respectively. The two tweets read: “I was the first to expose APC’s plan to field a Muslim/Muslim ticket in 2015. Buhari and El Rufai wanted that but Saraki and OBJ opposed it. Had it not been for them the APC would have had a Muslim/Muslim ticket and Tinubu would be VP today. That is why Tinubu hates them so much.” “I condemn the arrest and detention of IPOB women by the security forces in Owerri simply for participating in a peaceful demonstration in support of Nnamdi Kanu and asking for his whereabouts. I call on the government to release the women and let them go home to their families.’ However, a day before, precisely on the 19th of August, Fani- Kayode again took to his twitter handle @realffk and reacted to a comment credited to President Buhari shortly after he returned from his 10-day working visit to London. Buhari had upon arrival threatened that he has come back to jail looters. Fani-Kayode, while reacting to Buhari’s comment said: “You are nothing but a pernicious liar, a loud-mouthed hypocrite and a schoolyard bully. No-one has looted as much money, inflicted as much pain and shed as much innocent blood as u. You shall end like Herod, Pharaoh and Sennacherub.   