By Kevin Okunzuwa  Benin –  Edo Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has reiterated his administration’s commitment to providing more support for victims of terrorism who reside in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps in the state. Obaseki made the pledge at a ceremony to commemorate the International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism, according to a statement issued by his media aide, Mr Crusoe Osagie, on Wednesday in Benin. The International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism is marked every Aug. 21 by the United Nations (UN) and member states across the globe. “While the Federal Government continues to intensify effort to subdue terrorists in the North East and other parts of Nigeria, Edo State will not relent in ensuring that IDPs residing in camps in the state are provided with adequate structures to make their stay comfortable. “The IDPs would be further assisted in recovering from the trauma of terrorism, as it will facilitate their rehabilitation and integration into society,” Obaseki said. The governor said more could still be achieved if well-meaning and public-spirited individuals, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), international donor agencies, among others, work closely with governments in scaling up assistance to victims of terrorism. Obaseki said that the state government would continue to coordinate efforts to assist IDPs in the state. According to the UN, “While more countries are affected by terrorism today, the number of victims has largely been concentrated in a small number of member states. “In 2017 alone, nearly three-quarter of all deaths caused by terrorism were in just five countries: Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria, Somalia and Syria”. The world body adds that “few member states have the resources or the capacity to fulfil the medium and long-term needs required for victims to fully recover, rehabilitate and integrate back into society. ” Victims can only recover and cope with their trauma through long-term multi-dimensional support, including physical, psychological, social and financial, in order to heal and live with dignity. “The primary responsibility to support victims of terrorism and uphold their rights rests with member states. “The United Nations has an important role in supporting member states to implement Pillar I and IV of the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy through standing in solidarity and providing support to victims, capacity building assistance, establishing networks of, and offering support to, civil society organizations, particularly victims of terrorism associations, and encouraging member states to promote, protect and respect the rights of victims.” (NAN)