By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Ogbia Restoration Crusaders (ORC) on Saturday condemned the attempt by puppet politicians who go about deceiving people by peddling falsehood that Gov. Dickson has handed over the structure of the PDP in the local government to them, reminding that only credible persons will be voted in Ogbia. The Director-General of the ORC, Okaniba Damson who stated this during a news and current affairs programme monitored in Yenagoa,  called on the people of Ogbia Kingdom to look out for credible aspirants in the forthcoming 2019 general election who can deliver on their promises. The group also said those who failed with the previous mandate given to them should be punished by being voted out of office. According to him, the ORC is mobilizing its members across all communities in Ogbia Local Government to support only those who can use their positions to attract development, peace and unity. He also condemned the attitude of some aspirants who boast of their endorsement by Governor Seriake Dickson, describing it as unfortunate. Damson said it is well known that their godfathers go to the governor and beg on their behalf. Such puppet politicians, he added, are using subtle intimidation to scare away more popular and acceptable aspirants and are using every gimmick to hoodwink gullible people in Ogbia. He condemned their attempt to deceive the people by peddling falsehood that Gov. Dickson has handed over the structure of the PDP in the local government to them because of his conviction that they are capable of delivering the votes for the party. While assuring that members of the Ogbia Restoration Crusaders will not carry guns, neither will they recruit cultists like some of the aspirants are doing, but will rather engage the people. Also speaking, the Secretary of the ORC, Prince Isaac Amakuro, said the group has been in the vanguard of promoting the Restoration Government in Ogbia after it was discovered that those who were saddled with the responsibility of doing so were not. He thanked Dickson for his direct intervention in the development of Ogbia Kingdom through the building of solid infrastructure and empowerment of the people. On his part, the Senior Special Assistant to Dickson on Youths in Ogbia, Osaanya B. Osaanya, urged all youths to shun violence during the elections, insisting that no blood should be spilled on account of the aspiration of any politician. 