By Omowunmi Alake and Oluwakemi Oladipo  Lagos –  A Registered Burn and Plastic Nurse, Mr Olugbenga Ajala, on Wednesday urged the general public to avoid using chemical bleaching products that could further lead to serious skin and health conditions. Ajala, who works at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba, Lagos, made plea in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. According to him, chemical bleaching can lead to serious skin and health conditions. “These include: permanent skin bleaching, thinning of skin, leading to a blotchy appearance, redness and intense irritation. “Bleaching is a process in which the hair on the skin is bleached to match with the actual skin tone. “But, skin whitening options have become very complicated these days, and there are plenty of options available in the market, leaving the customers confused. “Therefore, it is very important to find out the side effects of skin bleaching before anyone can opt for the whitening agent for their skins,” Ajala said. He said that further implications could be increased acne, osteoporosis, neurological and kidney damage or skin cancer, due to high level of mercury used in the creams. “It can also lead to psychiatric disorders, liver damage and severe birth defects in children born to mothers who abuse certain chemicals. “Although, skin bleaching or whitening can be a good option for getting rid of dark spot or skin discoloration. “However, the process is not free from side effects, because some of these products are rather very harmful,” Ajala said. The expert said that skin bleaching had been a disturbing widespread practice and also very controversial. “In some parts of the world, it is believed that light and pale skinned people portray beauty, richness and success as well. “Dark complexioned people are considered below standard and so people opt for skin whitening or bleaching creams, pills and other products,” he said. Ajala advised people on colour to embrace their natural given complexion and also avoid over exposure to ultraviolet rays and adopt healthy diets that could promote healthy skin. “Healthy diet is very important in getting a healthy skin, food with nutrients such as Vitamin E that contains antioxidant properties, like eggs, avocados, sunflower seeds and spinach. “Also, Vitamin C is a powerful antioxidant because it also involves in the synthesis of collagen, an important protein for making the skin supple. “Food sources are orange, pineapple, guava, grapefruit and strawberries; also, Selenium is a powerful antioxidant trace mineral that is responsible for maintaining skin firmness and elasticity. “Food sources high in selenium include: walnuts, tuna, liver, wheat germ, onion, seafood, whole grains, brown rice and poultry,” he said. (NAN)