By Solomon Asowata Monrovia –  The Chairman of Air Peace, Mr Allen Onyema, says seamless air connectivity is pivotal to unlocking the economies of Africa and maximising the potentialities of the continent. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Onyema made the assertion on Monday during the inaugural flights of Air Peace from Lagos, Abuja and Accra to Monrovia, Liberia. NAN reports that the airline’s Boeing B737-500 which departed from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, landed at the Roberts International Airport, Margibi County, Monrovia at 12.15p.m. The aircraft was welcomed to Liberia with a Water Guard Salute by aviation authorities of Liberia and other eminent business personalities. Onyema, who was represented by the airline’s Corporate Communications Manager, Mr Chris Iwarah, said the new routes were part of the third phase of the carrier’s network expansion project on the West Coast of Africa. He said: ” Today’s event is a pleasing consolidation of our efforts to unlock the economies of Africa, offer air travellers on business and leisure trips seamless connectivity as well as create jobs for the people. “We began our intervention in the air travel difficulties of the West Coast of Africa with the inauguration of our Lagos-Accra service in February 2017. ” A year later in February 2018, we deepened our presence in the regional airspace with the addition of Freetown, Banjul and Dakar to our route network simultaneously. “We are pleased to affirm that the pieces of feedback we get clearly indicate that Air Peace is leading a revolution that is now hugely transforming air transportation on the West Coast of Africa.” According to him, the addition of Monrovia to the airline’s route network is a fitting response to the yearnings of the flying public for the Air Peace experience. Onyema noted that it had brought Air Peace regional destinations to five, expressing optimism that more would be added in due time. “Our goal is to build a solid base to link African nations and connect the continent to the rest of the world by air. “With our expanded fleet of 24 aircraft comprising Boeing 737, Boeing 777, Embraer I45 and Domier jets, we are set to soon begin flights to many international destinations. “These include Dubai, Sharjah, Guangzhou-China, London, Houston, Mumbai and South Africa,” he said. Also, Mrs Paula Harvey, Deputy Managing Director, Technical Services, Liberia Airport Authority, said the country was delighted to welcome the operations of Air Peace and the airline’s efforts to connect African countries. “We hope that your operations will be safe and fruitful. If it is fruitful for you, it will be fruitful for us as well. “Thanks for coming to Liberia”, she said.  (NAN)