By Itohan Abara-Laserian  Lagos,   –     An upcoming music act, Emex E.O.T, has said that the only feat yet to announce the Nigerian music industry to the world was the Grammy Awards. Emex E.O.T, born Emmanuel Thompson, an Afro beat and pop artiste, said this while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Lagos to announce his new single, titled, “Kontrol” released under the label GMG Records. The artiste said that winning a Grammy Award is the climax of any musician’s career that will annouce that truly Nigerian music was accepted and identified with globally. “Although, Nigeria’s Afro beat icon, Femi Kuti has been nominated for a Grammy Award some years back, it is not the same as winning it. “Winning a Grammy is the height of every artiste that will tell the world that the genre and the origin of the song is accepted globally, it is the climax of a one’s musical career. “Nigerian artistes are winning international awards like Davido, Wizkid and Tuface but it is not the same as winning a Grammy and that is the only feat left to achieve by the industry,” he told NAN. “The highest international award ever won by a Nigerian artiste is the Mobo Awards which was won by Wizkid along side Jay-Z, Rihana, Drake and others, I think in 2017. “So, the future is bright for Nigerians, our style of music will get us Grammy Award that will take us to the next level in the international music space,” he said. Emex E.O.T also said that Nigeria was Africa’s entertainment hub and a driver of Afro beat sound, adding that a lot was happenning in the sector. “Currently, African artistes wants to be identified with Nigerian artistes, they know our worth and our music is going a long way. “Nigerian artistes are doing international collaborations, for instance, the Wizkid and Drake collabo, that was massive. “Nigerians have an edge in the African entertainment industry and we are leveraging on that to do great things,” he said. NAN reports that the Priyanka crooner had been in the music space for two years professionally and had sojourned in India but returned to Nigeria in 2017 to promote his brand. Emex E.O.T is a 21-year-old Akwa-Ibom indigene but was born and raised in Alagbado, a suburb of Lagos State. According to him, more internationally based artistes should come back home because they can only be accepted wholehearted here in Nigeria. NAN reports that Kontrol (a groovy song) is Emex E.O.T’s second single after Priyanka (a love song).