By Gbenga Dada  Lagos,   –       As part of its corporate social responsibility, the Lagos Aviation Maritime Business Academy (LAMB) says it will offer scholarships to orphans, less-privileged and internally displaced persons in Nigeria in its 2018/2019 academic session. The Rector of LAMB, Dr Emeka Udowu, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at its Lagos office in Ijegun Township, a suburb of Lagos that 360 spaces had been made available for admission into the institution. “LAMB, which is popularly known as Innovation Polytechnic, is an institution with focus on Maritime and Aviation. “As part of our corporate social responsibility we want to assist the less privileged all over Nigeria as our capacity will allow. “We have made provision to admit 360 indigent persons from all over the 36 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) at a ratio of 10 students per state. “I want to particularly urge students from the Northeast and North central to key into this package,’’ Udowu said. He added that as part of the package, the institution would waive fifty per cent of its tuition for the beneficiaries, allow a free three-month certificate programme and also award a National Innovation Diploma. The rector said that the institution was channeling this offer through religious institutions like churches and mosques. Udowu called on governments at the state and federal levels to key into the package by granting an education support loan to institutions willing to help the indigent. He urged the government to partner with the institution in the area of manpower development that would enhance its ability to sponsor indigent students. “Basically, we are a technical innovative polytechnic. We need to acquire more specialised equipment, machines and tools to enhance our teaching capacity, but the cost of acquiring these tools is exorbitant. “However, if we can access loans at a low-interest rate, it will go a long way to make our task easier,’’ the LAMB rector stressed. Udowu urged prospective students to contact the school for more details on its offer. He called on the Lagos State Government to urgently rehabilitate the road linking the Ije-Ododo community in Ijegun to other communities in the state. The LAMB rector said making the road good and durable would greatly facilitate the growth and development of the community. NAN reports that the LAMB Academy is a registered Independent Tertiary Institution in the field of Aviation Management, Maritime Management and Logistic Management. It also specialises in Petroleum and Pipeline Management, Security Management Technology, among others. The polytechnic, established in 2000, is duly registered under the Companies and Allied Matters Act 1990, and is recognised by the National Board for Technical Education and Federal Ministry of Education.