By Oladele Eniola  Lagos    –       Oba Josiah Olanrewaju-Aina, Oloto of Oto Awori Kingdom, on Tuesday appealed to people in the area to get their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs), to participate actively in the 2019 general elections. The monarch, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos, said that many people in the area were yet to pick up their cards, hence the appeal. He reiterated that the PVC was essential to play one’s part in electing the right leaders. “The Permanent Voter’s Card is essential; it is your pass to voting in the next year’s election, but most people in my area are yet to pick up their cards from the designated centres. “We have embarked on various enlightenment programmes to tell the residents in the area of the need to get their voter’s cards. ‘‘We are, however, glad that they have started responding,” he said. The monarch expressed hope that many would also take advantage of the extension of the Continuous Voter Registration to get registered, to enable them to exercise their civil rights. He urged the Lagos State Government to embark on rehabilitation works so as to ensure easy movement of vehicles on the Lagos-Badagry expressway. “The sufferings that people go through on a daily basis because of the deplorable state of the road are worrisome and unbearable. “Words cannot be enough to describe the state of the road because it cannot be explained. It is so bad that it destroys people’s cars and causes unnecessary delays. “The State Government should carry out some palliative measures to serve as a short-term solution, pending the total rehabilitation of the road,” he said. The royal father commended the State Government for its efforts in improving the security situation in the state. “The area has been well secured and the government must be commended for that, because of measures put in place. “We must also ensure that we take part in things that would complement the efforts of the government, so that we can move forward in every sector,” he said.