By Stephen Adeleye Idah (Kogi)   –     The Kogi Government on Thursday urged tertiary institutions in the state to look inward and outward for revenue generation as alternate source of funding. The Commissioner for Education, Science & Technology, Mrs Rosemary Osikoya, gave the advice at a meeting with the management of College of Health Sciences and Technology Idah, in Idah Local Government Area. According to Osikoya, the sector needs to critically look inward and outward, do more of team work and partner with stakeholders, to enhance corporate social responsibility support in the institutions. She, therefore, called for more sensitisation and collaboration with all stakeholders such as the Federal Government, private organisations and individuals to partner with institutions for funding. She also urged the state’s institutions to rethink, re-strategise, refocus and task themselves on how to unlock and harness their potentials for revenue generation. She commended the governor for supporting the school which had brought much-needed development and applauded the provost for being proactive in taking the right decision. “We are very hopeful that as a team we could take on all external stakeholders to give the needed support, which Kogi has been lacking over the years. “Where there is so much need and gap, then, we would have to think of out of the box and that is exactly what we are doing now. “Gov Yahaya Bello has set up a framework which is the New Direction Blueprint and the target is to make it functional and ensure the delivery of the promise. “In spite of all constraints and obstacles, we have to create an avenue where stakeholders would have to work together as a team,” she said. Earlier Mr Nuhu Anyegwu, the Provost of the College, commended the commissioner for the inaugural visit, saying “we are indeed very grateful and strongly believe in your pragmatic approach to issues.” Anyegwu said that his administration had, in two years, strengthened quality assurance, expanding infrastructure, improved academic standard and enhanced e-admission registration for new students. He, however, said that the college was in dire need of subvention and imperest to support its day-to-day running, adding that other critical facilities needed to be put in place to ensure NBTE accreditation. “We have brainstormed and shared ideas, and we will make use of the available resources in terms of personnel, fund and materials to bridge the gap,” the provost said.