By Prudence Arobani  New York –   The United States has urged all parties in Zimbabwe’s electoral dispute to respect the country’s constitution and the rule of law. The U.S. Department of State, in a statement issued by its Spokesperson, Ms Heather Nauert, noted “several improvements’’ in Zimbabwe’s recent electoral process compared to what obtained in the past. On Friday, Aug. 24, Zimbabwe’s Constitutional Court declared Emmerson Mnangagwa the winner of the July 30 presidential election and Zimbabwe’s next President. Consequently, the Court dismissed Nelson Chamisa’s – the candidate of opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Alliance – challenge of the election results. “The IRI-NDI Zimbabwe International Electoral Observation Mission reported, “several improvements to the electoral process compared to Zimbabwe’s past elections, though equally important problems gave rise to deep concerns that the process thus far has not made the mark.’’ The U.S. said further reforms were necessary to meet standards Zimbabweans expect, deserve and which reflect regional and international best practices for democratic elections. “The United States remains concerned over politically motivated human rights violations and abuses and acts of post-electoral retribution in Zimbabwe. “Violence and unlawful activity should not be part of the political process and those responsible for such transgressions must be held accountable,’’ the U.S. said. It added that human rights and fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of expression and association must be respected and victims and witnesses of human rights violations and abuses deserve protection under the law. “The United States encourages the Government of Zimbabwe to hold substantive discussions with all stakeholders and implement electoral and broader political and economic reforms. “We stand ready to continue our dialogue with Zimbabwe’s political, economic and civil society leaders to foster inclusive democratic governance for the betterment of all citizens.’’ The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission declared Mnangagwa winner of the election after some delays, which some observers said created opportunities for citizens to speculate about the potential to manipulate results. The elections had been largely peaceful and well-organised before violence broke out during a demonstration by supporters of MDC Alliance, alleging malpractices and leading to the killing of three people by security forces. (NAN)