By Ahmed Ubandoma  Abuja   –     The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has called for greater participation of women in elective positions to ensure gender mainstreaming for sustainable development of Nigerian women. Mrs Buhari said this on Wednesday when a Coalition of All Progressives Congress (APC) women leaders from the South-East paid her a solidarity visit at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The women, comprising APC women Coordinators from all the local governments and five states in the South-East, led by the wife of Imo Governor, Mrs Nkechi Okorocha, came under the auspices of APC South-East Women for Buhari. She said that women formed greater percentage of the voting population in Nigeria, hence the need for stakeholders to involve them in decision-making bodies. According to her, the inclusion of of women will enable them to decide on issues affecting their lives, especially as it relates to maternal and child mortality rate as well as empowerment.  Mrs Buhari, who called for gender balancing in the activities of political parties, urged stakeholders to always respect party constitution as well as reward hard working members of the political parties, to ensure fairness. The wife of the President called for unity and respect for party supremacy among APC women and charged them not be to discouraged as the future was right for Nigerian women. In her remark, the leader of the delegation informed the gathering that the purpose f the visit was to congratulate the wife of the President on her recent award by the Sun Moon University in South Korea. Mrs Okorocha also said that the group were convinced by the leadership qualities exhibited by the APC-led Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari, especially in infrastructural development in the South-East. She expressed her support for the Buhari`s determination to change the fortunes of Nigerians and for the overall development of the country. Also Speaking, the Coordinator, South-East APC Women for Buhari, Barr. Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu, who spoke on behalf of the women, said the group had over five million members across Abia, Anambra, Enugu, Ebonyi and Imo states. Ibekaku-Nwagwu expressed their confidence on the president’s ability to rescue Nigeria from the menace of corruption and insecurity. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was attended by the Senior Special Assistant to the President, Dr. Hajo Sani, former Deputy Governor of Plateau State, Pauline Tallen, APC National Woman leader, Mrs Salamatu Baiwa, among others.