By Emmanuel Mogbede  Abuja –   The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday reaffirmed its commitment to transparent elections in the country on the basis of one-man, one-vote. National Chairman of the party, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, gave the assurance in Abuja while inaugurating a 63-member campaign committee for forthcoming governorship election in Osun. He said that the national leadership of the party would work closely with the Osun chapter to mobilise people of the state to vote for its candidate. Oshiomhole said that the committee, headed by Kano State Governor, Alhaji Umar Ganduje, would ensure that the party emerged victorious at the election. He said that the confidence Nigerians had in the APC was evident in the number of states it presently controlled. “They have expressed so much trust and confidence in our party, that on our platform, 24 governors were elected. “We are happy that more progressives are coming. So, the importance of Osun is readily appreciated by all of us,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that members of the committee included 14 governors, eight ministers and federal lawmakers. The governors are those of Kogi, Kano, Oyo, Imo, Lagos, Ogun, Jigawa, Bauchi, Plateau, Zamfara, Adamawa, Edo and Osun. The Ministers of Defence, Interior, Health, Agriculture and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources are also members of the committee. Oshiomhole said that members of the committee were carefully selected, adding that the idea was to sustain the party’s values and ideals. In his response, Ganduje thanked the APC leadership for the opportunity given to the committee members to serve and the confidence it reposed on them, and acknowledged that the committee’s task was important. “Our chairman, what you have done is to match the quality of the committee with the importance of the assignment. There is no doubt that winning Osun is very vital to the party,” he said. Ganduje added that winning Osun would give the APC total control of South-West states. He assured that the committee would mobilise the party’s members in the state to ensure its victory at the polls. “Luckily, the governor of Osun is a man of the people; he provided dividends of democracy to the people and he relates with all the strata of the society in the state. “He is loved by the people, so all that is required is for us to sit together, while ensuring that there is total reconciliation among those who contested the primaries,” he added. Ganduje said that carrying everyone along was imperative in order to give a sense of belonging to all party members as well as mobilising stakeholders for unity. He assured that the committee would work hard to win the election in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). (NAN)