By Mohammed Mamman Damaturu –  Gov. Ibrahim Gaidam of Yobe has called on the Federal Government to intensify aerial survelliance to rescue the abducted Dapchi schoolgirls and enhance general security of the state. Gaidam made the call on Monday when the Presidential Committee to unravel circumstances surrounding the abduction of the students of Government Girls Science Technical School, Dapchi, visited the state. He commended the Buhari Administration for its committed zeal in fighting insurgency in the North-East. He said the visit by four different delegations sent by the federal government underscored the commitment of government to rescue the schoolgirls. The governor also commended to the Nigerian Army for acting with dispatch and realigning the check points in Ngelzarma and Damagum to beef up security. “I am optimistic that with the kind of inspiring concern exhibited by the federal government, other patriotic Nigerians and indeed, the international community, we will intensify our efforts until all the girls are found.” He lauded the efforts of security organisations, which he said, had recorded unprecedented success to the admiration of all. According to the governor, the Police and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have deployed their personnel to schools across the state to build more confidence in the parents and students. Gaidam solicited for comprehensive strategy to mop up the remnants of Boko Haram insurgents in the North-East. The Chairman of the committee, Rear Admiral Victor Adedipe, said they were in the state to dialogue with stakeholders to uncover circumstances surrounding the abduction. He said that the committee had interacted with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, the Theater Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole and other senior military officers engaged in the operation. He listed the committee’s terms of reference to include: to ascertain the circumstance of the abduction, determine the exact number of persons abducted, confirm presence and disposition of security operatives and communication facilities in Dapchi. Others are: to suggest to government, measures to locate and rescue the students, measures to forestall future occurrence and recommend any other measures that can assist the government. Meanwhile, the Dapchi Youth Development Association has declared total support for the ongoing efforts by government to rescue the schoolgirls. A communique signed by Alhaji Baba Shehu, Secretary of the association, called for engagement of all parents of the schoolgirls by government committees. “While rescue efforts are ongoing, we urge Yobe Government to decide in earnest the fate of the over 800 girls that escaped the abduction and returned home following closure of the school, “it said. (NAN)