By Donald Ugwu Abuja –  Ogun Gov. Ibikunle Amosun, said on Thursday that his administration had provided a conducive environment to attract investors to the state. Speaking with the State House Press Corps on the sideline of the Special National Economic Council (NEC) meeting in Abuja, Amosun said the measure contributed to the rise in industrialization of the state. According to him, before the administration came into office investors were scared of the state and preferred to go to neighbouring states but that all the factors making investors to run away from the state have been removed. He said that his administration turned the investment climate in the state around in its first year in office. He said that the administration ensured that the state was secure and also provided the enabling environment for investment such as provision of infrastructure. The governor added that the administration changed the way that “the landlords and landladies’’ in the state, the civil servants, carried out their activities by making them to adapt to the private-sector driven way of doing things. He said that the way of doing things was to make the economy to be private-sector driven adding that the federal and state budget comprised only about 10 per cent to 15 per cent of the GDP showing that the economy lay outside the government. “Clearly it tells you that out there is where the money is and you must devise a means to attract it, which is what we did. “Clearly we moved from 35th to the best five according to the World Bank and I am sure that they are releasing another report which will clearly show that Ogun is number one. “In terms of sustainability in Nigeria we are only second to Lagos state which I am happy for Lagos but in the next few weeks Ogun will be where it should be,’’ he said. The governor stated that the administration was developing human capital which would make it difficult for any succeeding administration not to follow the same path of growth and development. “We are developing our people; we are strengthening institutions rather than personalities; governors will come and go and what we are doing in the state is that you do not need to know anybody before your business thrives. On the collection of taxes made for Ogun by Lagos, he said that some past Lagos governors had remitted such taxes to Ogun adding that the remittance was no longer regular. According to him those who live in Ogun and go to work in Lagos are putting a lot of pressure on Ogun infrastructure. “Their children attend our schools, they go to our health facilities and when they throw their refuse away we pack them, they ply our roads and the law is so clear that as residents they should be paying their taxes to us. “We approached Lagos state and they agreed that they will be paying us. “We told them that on a monthly basis they owe us about N800 million but they agreed that they will pay N80 million,’’ he said. Amosun said that Gov Akinwumi Ambode had paid for about six months and stopped but said that the issue would soon be fully resolved. Meanwhile, Kogi Gov. Yahaya Bello has said that he was not disturbed by the constant attacks by  Sen. Dino Melaye as his duty was to perform his governorship role to the people of Kogi which he was doing diligently. He said he remained undeterred whenever such matters did not affect the way he ran the state. The governor described Kogi as a complex state adding that he took over the reins of office when things were bad. “I am doing my best to give quality service to the people of Kogi and the people appreciate the work that I am doing,’’ he said. On the recent killing of 12 persons in the state, the governor described the incident as very pathetic. “We have constituted a judicial panel of inquiry to look into the remote and immediate causes of such attack because this is not the first time such an attack is happening in that particular area. “In 2014 it happened when lives and property were destroyed and thank God with the support of the military, the police and other police agencies were able to quickly move into action and that particular incident has been stopped,’’ Bello stated. According to him, arrests are being made and investigations are on and by the time the judicial panel of inquiry comes out with its findings and recommendation  there will be a lasting solution to the crisis. On the recent release of kidnapped Dapchi girls, he praised President Muhammadu Buhari for a job well done and the people of Yobe for the happy news. (NAN)