By Chimezie Anaso  Awka   –     The people of Ogidi and Obosi communities in Anambra where erosion control works are ongoing have promised not constitute challenges to efforts at ensuring that the projects were delivered as scheduled. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Anambra Government and the World Bank Assisted Nigeria Erosion Watershed Management Project (NEWMAP) had on March 12 handed over the sites to a contractor, Chez Aviv Nigeria Ltd. The erosion projects at Ikenga Ogidi and Ugamuma Obosi, both in Idemili North Local Government Area are expected to be delivered in 24 months. Mr Jideofor Onubogu, President-General of Ogidi Town, said the community was assuring the Anambra Government, NEWMAP and the contractor of safe atmosphere. He said they had looked forward to such intervention as the erosion was already sacking them from their natural habitat. “We were already vacating our ancestral home because the erosion is massive. We are assuring the contractor that he will get our full cooperation,’’ he said. Also, Dr Amaechi Ekume, Nationl President, Ikenga Ogidi Family Union, said they were relieved and were grateful to the state government for commencing the erosion control work. “The erosion site happens to be in Ikenga Ogidi, our joy knows no bound; we owe the governor of Anambra gratitude for choosing our site after we have tried fruitlessly to get it done by past administrations. “I want to give the guarantee that nobody will interrupt the progress of the erosion project in Ikenga Ogidi. “It is an assurance we are giving to the World Bank, NEWMAP, the Anambra Government and the contractor, nobody is going to interrupt the job, it is a guarantee,’’ he said. On his part, Mr Ike Madubosa, the President-General of Obosi Town, told NAN that youth violence or invasion would not be an excuse from anybody. Madubosa assured the government that nobody would come near the project site to foment trouble, adding that Obosi did not interfere with issues that bring them development. He said it was normal for people from the area to scout either for jobs or to supply materials but said there was no safe haven for anybody that would impede the process. “I have assured them that Obosi is safe for the contractor to do his job, nobody will come near there to cause trouble. “Police have come to Obosi to work in recent times, our street light was installed not long ago and there was no problem and as long as I am the president-general, the youth will behave themselves,’’ he said. Mr Frank Nnaji, Chairman of Chez Aviv, the contractor executing the projects, told NAN that they would work towards delivering the works on or before the 24 months tenure. Nnaji said they were chosen because of their track record as foremost indigenous erosion control engineering firm and confidence in their ability to deliver. He promised to do a borehole project with 10,000 litres capacity overhead tank for each of the communities as the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and pleaded for conducive environment to work. “World Bank project and process of selecting contractor is a rigourous one and based on that we were found worthy and selected by the World Bank. “We handled high erosion sites in Cross River and Enugu State simultaneously and we delivered as the sole indigenous company that delivered in World Bank erosion project. “We understand erosion challenges and the approach and we know the World Bank standard of checkmating erosion, we are going to put in our best to ensure we deliver before time according to standard and drawing. “We have promised to do some CSR by making sure those who are ready to work are employed because we are not a money dishing firm, every fund is tied to a job. “Our appeal is for safe environment to enable us work, there are some communities where we go and the youths frustrate us. “You leave sight in the night and discover in the morning that what you did have been vandalised, that is why we want them to give us security for our equipment and personnel,’’ he said.