…Assign the Corps the Responsibility of Protecting Schools Against Gun Men and Kidnappers  By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Comrade Senator representing Kaduna Central at the National Assembly, Senator Shehu Sani has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to rescind his decision and sign the Peace Corps Bill.  The Kaduna Senator urges President Buhari to assign the Corps the responsibility of protecting schools against gun men and kidnappers.  Shehu Sani who took to his twitter handle “@ShehuSani”, advised President Buhari thus: “The President should rescind his decision. He should sign the Peace Corps Bill. The organization should be assigned to protect schools against gun men and kidnappers”.  Shehu Sani’s advise may not be unconnected with the recent avoidable abduction of school girls at Dapchi, Yobe State.  Recall that the abduction of about 110 school girls from Girls’ Technical School Dapchi, was said to have taken place less than two weeks after the withdrawal of the military from the area. Sundiata Post recall that President Buhari had in a letter dated 25th January 2018 addresses to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara, informed that he is declining presidential assent to the Nigeria Peace Corps Bill.  According to Buhari, “Pursue to section 68(4) of the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), I hereby convey to the House of Representatives, my decision on 25, January, 2018 to decline presidential assent to the Nigeria Peace Corps establishment bill, 2017 recently passed by the national assembly specifically, reason for the decision to decline assent to this bill include among others:  “A security concerns regarding the proposed Nigeria Peace Corps bill being authorized to undertake activities currently being performed by extant security and law enforcement agencies and;  “Financial implication of funding the establishment and operations of the proposed Nigeria Peace Corps, given the scarce financial resources may pose serious challenge to the government.  However, there were clear indications that the abduction that took place at the Girls Technical Secondary school, Dapchi, Yobe State would have been averted had the troops in the area not been withdrawn almost a week before the unfortunate incident.  According to the Governor of Yobe State, Mr Ibrahim Gaidam, “The attack came barely a week after the military withdrew troops from the town. He said if the soldiers had been on ground, the attack on the town and subsequent abduction of schoolgirls would not have been possible”.  Mr. Gaidam made the clarification when he hosted the Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima, who was in Damaturu on a sympathy visit.