By Stanley Nwanosike  Enugu  –     The traditional ruler of Ifitedunu in Anambra, Igwe Chukwuemeka Ilouno, on Sunday urged government at all levels to use youths in gathering intelligence in order to tackle the current security challenges in the security. Ilouno told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu that the issue of security in every society remains the business of every member of a community. The monarch said that the Federal Government should act fast and commence a nationwide enlightenment programme on security intelligence and information gathering involving youths in communities. This, according to the monarch, would assist security agencies of existing and future security threats in various communities. Ilouno, who is also the Chairman of Anambra Central Traditional Rulers’ Council, noted that government lacks the resources in terms of manpower and finance to provide enough security in all communities. According to him, what is needed now is intelligence policing and not physical policing as it is now. “The Federal Government should start massive enlightenment for youths on how to gather useful security information and intelligence for security agencies within their localities and states. “This should be just as what is found in other climes like in Britain and Israel, where every citizen knows the role to play in terms of security and they easily give valid and useful security information to their security agencies to nip crime and criminality in the bud on time. “This is the way to go so that everybody will be involved and we can as a people secure our communities, states and country better by stopping evil people from their schemes on time,’’ he said. The monarch also said that government can involve the traditional rulers and religious leaders in the enlightenment campaign since the two groups appreciate the benefits of security and peace. “Each royal father and religious leader wants development in terms of human capital and infrastructure which can only come when there is peace and security,’’ he said.