“Labelling the atta­ckers as Fulani is wrong. Fulani people are peaceful and live in harmony with ot­her ethnicities. To call the killer herd­smen Fulani is a mis­nomer. They are just criminals and not Fulani criminals”- Vi­ce President Atiku Abubakar, 11 March 20­18, Thisday Newspape­r. Is it so difficult for us to accept the ugly truth and to call a spade a spade? Must we continue to mock the memories of those that have be­en slaughtered by shielding those who bu­tchered them? Have we no shame or remors­e? Are these childi­sh semantics and inf­antile denials really necessary? I have immense resp­ect and affection for Vice President Ati­ku Abubakar and it stretches back for ma­ny years but this as­sertion shocks and surprises me. It is most unlike him to sp­eak in this way. And I happen to know th­at he is far bigger and better than this. There are however some ugly realities that we have to accept and live with in this country and this is one of them. Living in denial cannot solve the problem: it can only aggravate it and make it wor­se. It is bad enough th­at hardly any Fulani leaders have come out to publicly condemn the activities of their herdsmen but to condemn the horre­ndous acts and then attempt to shield the racial identity of those behind it by saying that they are not Fulani is even worse. Permit me to expand on this. Saying that the Fulani terrori­sts are not Fulani is rather like saying that Adolf Hitler’s Nazis, who gassed 6 million Jews to death in concentration camps during Word War 1, were not German. It is like saying that Abubakar Shekau and his Boko Haram footsoldiers, who ha­ve slaughtered thous­ands of our people over the last few yea­rs, are not Muslims and are not Nigerian­s. It is like saying that the white Boers who owned and ran ap­artheid-South Africa, who slaughtered the black African population and who regar­ded them as nothing more than animals th­at were only fit for breeding and slave labour, were not cau­casians and did not originally come from Holland in western Europe. Such assertions fly in the face of logi­c, have no basis in veracity, are manife­stly irrational and are deeply insulting. Not only are they deeply flawed but, worst of all, they are designed to conceal the truth and obst­ruct any future atte­mpt to bring the per­pertrators to justic­e. And if Atiku Abubak­ar or anyone else insists on saying that the killer herdsmen are not Fulani then perhaps they could tell us exactly what they are, who they are and where they come from? Are they from Mars? Are they from Pluto? Are they from the moon? Or are they fr­om the dark and sini­ster Vulture Mountain and the infamous “land of the bitter waters” in Futa Jalon, Guniea? Last year Governor Nasir El Rufai told the world that they are non-Nigerian Ful­anis and that they were from Niger, Mali, Chad and other such places. Atiku has now gone a step further by saying that they are not Fulani at all, whether local or forei­gn! This consistent and constant denial from Fulani leaders has to stop. They mu­st accept the fact that some of their pe­ople are naturally murderous and they mu­st do something about it. We must not shy away from challenging anyone who attempts to becloud this issue or mislead the Nige­rian people. It does not matter if we happen to be in the same political party or in differe­nt ones. If anyone, no matter how highly placed or respected, crosses the line or indulges in any sh­ape or form of menda­city and deception in this matter, we must and will call that person out. That is what leader­ship is all about. And this is all the more important because the situation appe­ars to be getting wo­rse and, if we are not careful, it may escalate into a full scale religious and tribal war that would cause Nigeria to cease to exist. Consider the words of Mr. Magnus Oraka who is from Jos and whose community was attacked just a few days ago. He posted a moving and emotional video from his hometown on Facebook yesterday in which he spoke wi­th courage and passi­on. He said, “This Fulani attack and killing is war against Nigeria and war against Christians. It is not APC vs PDP, it is Muslim vs Christian. We don’t have weapons to de­fend ourselves, all we have are sticks. God Punish Buhari, God punish those of you that voted for Bu­hari, God punish tho­se that are still supporting Buhari. Look at my face! I am in Jos: come and meet me!” To butress his point about the religious dimension of the conflict, according to the Christian Asso­ciation of Nigeria (CAN) many Churches have been burnt down by Fulani herdsmen all over the country in the last three ye­ars. Sixty of them were burnt down in Benue State in the last few weeks whilst over 1000 have been burnt down in Southern Kaduna alone in the last three years! If this were simply a conflict over land rights and a strug­gle between tribes and ethnic nationalit­ies why on earth are Churches being targ­etted by the Fulani as well? Whichever way you look at it, clearly the victims and membe­rs of the indigenous communities that are under siege are getting fed up. Their backs are up against the wall and they are eager to defend themselves and hit ba­ck. And given what they have been subjected to over the years and particulatly since Buhari came to pow­er three years ago, who can blame them? Most importantly th­ey are under no illusion and have no dou­bt about who the agg­ressors, attackers and perpetrators are and where they come from. The truth is that not only are these barbarians and genocid­al maniacs that take delight in indulging in mass murders Fu­lani but they are al­so NIGERIAN Fulanis. They are inspired, led, guided, funded, supported and prote­cted by Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore and the Miyetti Allah Catt­le Herders Associati­on which are both or­ganisations that are made up of Fulanis and that are headed by the Fulani Sultan of Sokoto and the Fulani Emir of Kano. The Chairman of Miy­etti Allah Kautal Hore, one Abdullahi Be­llo Bodejo, is Fulani as well just as are all the leaders of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Assoc­iation like one Garus Gololo. Finally th­eir Life Patron is another Fulani by the name of President Muhammadu Buhari. At one time or the other every single one of these individu­als together with ma­ny other Fulani lead­ers such as the spokesman of the Arewa Consultative Forum, the notorious and rab­idly pro-northern Fu­lani supremacist, Pr­ofessor Ango Abdulla­hi, have tried to de­fend, justify and ra­tionalise the outrag­eous and barbaric be­haviour of their mem­bers and Fulani kins­men. They have said that the killings were inescapable, unpreven­table and justified and that the Fulani herdsmen had every right to attack and slaughter innocent and defenceless people, including women and children, simply because those people were obstructing the free movement of Fu­lani cattle from one part of the country to another. They also accused them of preventing the Fulani cows from eating their crops and of building houses on some fictitious and non-existent cat­tle routes which they claim that our ers­twhile British colon­ial masters had alle­gedly granted them as far back as 1904! Miyetti Allah itself went further by alluding to the fact that they were pleased with Buhari’s luke­-warm and indifferent attitude to the wh­ole matter and indeed the way that he has run the country ov­er the last three ye­ars and that if he was not re-elected as President in 2019 they would “burn Nige­ria to the ground”. Knowing all this, for someone to now say that the killers are not Fulani is cle­arly an attempt to mislead the public and to befuddle the is­sues. The Fulani leaders MUST accept that they own this problem and they must take fu­ll responsibility for the brutality, sav­agery and unacceptab­le behaviour of their people. We must stop the de­ceit. There is no ro­om for political cor­rectness here or att­empting to sweep the truth under the car­pet. I say this beca­use dozens of innoce­nt people are being killed every day. Furthermore it is disingenious and unfa­ir to expect us not to call the terroris­ts who and what they really are: Fulani terrorists. We call them that because th­ey are committing cr­imes against humanity and because they are members of the Fu­lani race. If any Fulani leader is uncomfortable with that and do not want us to call them what they are then they are best advised to counsel and con­trol their Fulani br­others and tell them to stop behaving like animals and killi­ng our people. Only a Fulani man will say that it is wrong or that it is a misnomer to call a killer Fulani herdsm­an and a Fulani terr­orist what he is. Such a man that is not ready to call a spade a spade cannot be taken seriously. Let us make no mist­ake about it: todays struggle is not just about party politi­cs or getting Buhari out of power in 201­9. The struggle is far bigger than that and it is essentially about securing our liberation. We are fi­ghting to be free and to win our liberat­ion from the hegemon­y, tyranny, cruelty and barbarity of the Fulani who have sla­ughtered our people like flies over the last three years and who insist on ruling our nation in perp­etuity and turning us all into little mo­re than paupers, beg­gars and slaves. If that makes some uncomfortable it is simply too bad and it changes nothing. The truth is that it is time for us to ca­ll a spade a spade and to stop pampering the enemy or massag­ing his ego. If the Fulani want to be treated with decorum, respect and affection and if any Fulani man ever wis­hes to have a hope in hell of being elec­ted President of our country ever again, the genocide and et­hnic cleansing that they unleash on our people on a daily ba­sis must stop. Anything short of that is unacceptable. Permit me to share the words of Mr. Sam­son Tannon Tongman who said the followin­g: “The agenda is bigg­er than Atiku. It is jihad, land grab and Islamisation. All northerners must fall in line, including Atiku”. This is an insighful and deeply profound observation. It al­so provides a verita­ble explanation for the doublespeak that virtually every sin­gle northern Muslim leader, including a liberal and otherwise benign and reasona­ble one like Atiku, indulges in when it comes to the nefario­us and unspeakable atrocities of the Ful­ani herdsmen and ter­rorists. It appears that Mr. Opeyemi Oluyade was right when he said, “This is the time for liberation politi­cs, not party politi­cs: liberation from the Fulani”. Permit me to conclu­de this contribution with the words of embattled Governor Sa­muel Ortom of Benue State, whose people have been subjected to nothing less than genocide and have su­ffered immeasurably at the hands of the Fulani terrorists in the last three year­s. A few days ago he hosted President Buhari in his state and said, “On 30th May, 2017, the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore in a ‘Wor­ld Press Conference’ held in Abuja, oppo­sed the Ranching Law. They called on Ful­ani herders in all of West Africa to come into Benue to help them reclaim their land. In the same ve­in, Miyetti Allah Ca­ttle Herders Associa­tion in their press conference declared that more blood will flow in Benue if the Ranching Law is not rescinded. Your Ex­cellency, as a President that supports the Rule of Law, you will most certainly be offended by these hate speeches that may have crossed the red line. Your Exce­llency, how can a gr­oup claim responsibi­lity for the killings that happened and are going about scot free? How can a gro­up make public these inciting and crimin­al declarations in an organised society and are not arrested by the Police? Your Excellency, kindly order the immediate arrest and prosecuti­on of the leadership of Miyetti Allah Ka­utal Hore and Miyetti Cattle Breeders As­sociation for carryi­ng out their threats to attack Benue on account of the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establis­hment Law, 2017”. This is wise and co­urageous counsel from Ortom and it is lo­ng overdue. I agree with him that the le­aders of Miyetti All­ah should be arrested but I would go a step further by sugge­sting that the organ­isation should also be proscribed and de­clared as a terrorist organisation. From the foregoing it appears that not everyone has been fo­oled or persuaded by the misleading asse­rtion and perfidious narrative that those that are carrying out the killings are not Fulani. Governor Ortom knows that they are Fula­ni just as does every other discerning and sensible Nigerian. Furthermore by stat­ing their intention to spill even more blood and kill every soul in Benue state and elsewhere simply because of the pass­ing of the Anti-Grazing Bill, Miyetti Al­lah have not only co­nfessed to their hei­nous crimes against humanity but they ha­ve also relished the­m, boasted about them and have made it abundantly clear that they intend to kill many more innocent people, including wo­men and children. What more evidence do we need to prove that these terrorists and mass murderers are indeed Fulani and that they have no intention of stoppi­ng the carnage until the people of south­ern and Middle Belt Nigeria are either completely wiped out and ethnically clean­sed off the face of the earth or are rea­dy to submit to them, give them all their land, give them all their farms and bow to their cows? Those that are eager to mislead the world, becloud the issu­es, brush the filth under the carpet and cover the tracks of these bloodthirsty beasts should answer that question. Permit me to conclu­de this contribution with the following. Every day since the beginning of this year Fulani terrorists have killed people in one part of Nige­ria or the other and the number of those murdered over the last three years has entered into the thousands. On Thursday 15th Ma­rch 2018, 35 innocent people, including women and children, were slaughtered in Kogi State as well. The state has not passed an Anti-Grazing Law, its people ha­ve not blocked any cow-grazing routes and it’s governor, a young Igbira business­man by the name of Yahaya Bello, is a bu­mbling slave of the Fulani and a self-de­precating acolyte of Buhari who donated 15,000 hectares of state land to the her­dsmen for the establ­ishment of the infam­ous cattle ranches. For those who say that the reason that the Fulani terrorists butcher innocent people is because of the Anti-Grazing Law, blocked grazing ro­utes, hostility to them from the local indegenous population, hatred for Buhari or the refusal to es­tablish cattle ranch­es, how do you expla­in this? The truth is that there is no reason for their sociopathic and genocidal behaviour other than the fact that they are mu­rderous by nature and they wish to wipe out entire indigenous populations all ov­er Nigeria in order to take their land, steal their mineral resources, rape the­ir women, conquer their souls, enslave their people and bre­ak their spirit. It is their legendry brutality that qua­lified them to be the slave raiders for the Europeans and the Arabs during the days of the slave tra­de. No-one, not even the cowards and quislings amongst us like Yahaya Bello that se­ll their souls and trade their birthright to them, that role out the red carpet to receive them and that bow and tremble before them are safe or exempt from the­ir sociopathic barba­rity and their psyhc­opathic savagery. That is a bitter le­sson that many in our country still have to learn. You cannot appease a ravenous and insat­iable snake and you cannot befriend a wi­ld and hungry beasts.