By Prudence Arobani New York – UN Secretary-General António Guterres has welcomed the successful conclusion of the mandate of the UN Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) after 15 years of hard work and sacrifices. Guterres also congratulated the Liberian people and Government for turning the page on crisis and conflict, as UNMIL, which was created by the UN Security Council in 2003, officially closed its doors on Friday. The Secretary-General also commended the Government’s ongoing efforts to keep Liberia on the path the peace and sustainable development. The UN chief appreciated the contributions of all partners in the Liberian peace process over the years, particularly the ECOWAS, whose forces laid the foundation for UN peacekeepers in Liberia ahead of UNMIL’s establishment in 2003. Guterres also expressed appreciation for the excellent leadership of his Special Representative for Liberia, Farid Zarif. He thanked all previous leaders of the Mission, and paid tribute to all uniformed and civilian personnel who served with UNMIL. The Secretary-General expressed his profound respect to the memory of the 202 peacekeepers who lost their lives in the service of peace during the nearly 15 years the Mission was deployed in Liberia. The UN chief also expressed his gratitude to all troop- and police-contributing countries. Even though the peacekeeping operation has wound down, the UN family still present in Liberia would remain committed to supporting the Government-led reform process, he said. According to him, this is with a view to ensuring that the hard-won peace can be sustained and the country and its people will continue to progress and thrive. Liberia, the first independent country in Africa, enjoyed nearly a century and a half of stability before falling into chaos, enduring two devastating civil wars between 1989 and 2003. More than 250,000 Liberians were killed and nearly a third of the population was uprooted. The UN Security Council established the peacekeeping mission for Liberia in October 2003, as violence lingered even after warring factions agreed to a cease-fire and a plan for political rebuilding. (NAN)