By Samuel Ajayi ABUJA (Sundiata Post) The greatest disservice the 1999 constitution did and still doing to Nigerians is placing the local government under state government. Whenever I drive round Lagos, I see the effect of this CONSTITUTIONAL CRIMINALITY. It has not only affected our infrastructural development but also our democratic evolution. Because of this faulty arrangement, the revenue sharing formula now recognises TWO tiers of government. However, what is payable to each local government is published. Let me take two local governments: Oye, in Ekiti State, and Ifako-Ijaye in Lagos. These are my local governments of ORIGIN and RESIDENCE. Oye gets an average of N140m per month from the Federation Account while Ifako-Ijaye gets an average of N365m per month. However, that is where the good news ends. These monies land in the hands of state governors and they give whatever they like to the local governments. For instance, Oye, in Ekiti, has never got up to N25m from this money in the last ten years. Same thing applicable to Ifako-Ijaye. In case of Lagos, since the state has additional 37 councils not recognised by the constitution, it is through the monies of the 20 recognised that the other unrecognised 37 are financed. These are the questions: * Why should it be the responsibility of Lagos State government to construct and maintenance of a feeder road in Ikorodu Local Government? * From my house to the twins’ school, it is just about five minute-drive. But you have to apply brakes least FORTY times because uncountable pot-holes. The chairman cannot fix these pot-holes unless Alausa gives approval! Meanwhile, this road is tarred. * Refuse disposal should be handled by local government. Lagos is in disarray today in that regard because of over-centralisation of a routine public service. We don’t need Cleaner Lagos. Let local councils handle refuse disposal and compete for the Most Clean Council as it was in those days. * Primary health care delivery is for local government. But since we killed local government, this has become history. * We used to have Local Authority (LA) schools in those days being run by local councils. Again, these have become history. * Maintenance of gutters and drainages used to be for local councils. Since 1999, this has been taken away from them as well. * Years back, local councils constructed feeder roads and maintained them. It stopped since 1999! Today, if you go to local governments, workers are idle and they just loaf around. They have nothing to do. It is this constitutional killing of the local government system that has affected democracy in that tier of government. Since state governments conduct elections into them, they do selection and put their lackeys there. If INEC is the one conducting local government elections ruing parties in the state will not be winning all seats. Then there will be strong determination to serve the people so that people can feel the impact of governance through party programmes. This will affect even state and federal elections. Finally, my present local government chair in Lagos lives a stone throw away from me. I have access to him. I have not seen any impact of his since July last year but I know his limitations. Ordinary drainage he cannot construct unless Alausa approves. This is a shame of a nation. We kill our infrastructure the day we killed the local government. The most painful aspect of it is that governors have done everything to possible to frustrate any amendment to this constitutional anomaly. Since we need 2/3rd of State Houses of Assembly to do this, that is 24 out of 36. And since most governors have Speakers in their pockets, they easily ensure this amendment is frustrated. Cry, the destroyed country… Source: Facebook