By Collins Yakubu-Hammer  Abuja   –       Shortly after former Super Eagles players, Joseph Yobo and Victor Ekpeba concluded their visit and exited the BBNaija house, Khloe confronted fellow housemate, Teddy A, over a piece of meat. The reason for her outburst was that Teddy A, took the piece of meat she cooked from the pot. Khloe who is yet to spend three days since her comeback to the house, told Teddy A, “I cook meat and you went to the pot and take it; and you are a man. “I cook this meat and I am going to serve it; Teddy, you do this thing all the time. I will ‘F’ you up,” she angrily jabbed at him. Teddy in his response said he was going to mess her up in the house adding, “I will show that I get ‘Wahala’; are you the one that bought the meat”. He then challenged her to beat him if she could. “All you do is making noise in the house; I will frustrate you in this house; I will kill you in this house. “Have you been to where I have been; I carry meat and you are shouting, is it your meat. If I like I will carry another one,” “You cannot do me anything even on my broken kneels you cannot beat me”, he said. Khloe was not ready to let go as she also lashed out at him. “I have not been to where you have gone, but you are here struggling for money with me. “Why won’t I shout, the meat is for everybody”, Khloe said. During the exchange of unprintable words, some of the housemates tried to pacify Teddy and Khloe. After a short while, Anto who was given another chance with Khloe to be in the game came into the kitchen to assist Khloe. She admonished Khloe not to bother about the meat Teddy took. “No need to worry about it, you already know who took the meat; you don’t need to stress yourself”. Khloe and Anto were the two ex-housemates that viewers voted for to come back and continue in the game. However, while Anto was evicted because she had the lowest number of votes, Khloe was disqualified alongside her paired partner K. Brule after three strikes for breaking house rules.