On his part Mafindi Danburam gave a pre­ss conference in Jal­ingo, Taraba State on Sunday 18th March in which he complain­ed that 54 Fulani he­rdsmen, who were all members of Miyetti Allah, had been arre­sted by the police and that his Fulani people were being sub­jected to persecution by the security ag­encies and indigeno­us political leaders in Taraba state sim­ply because they were Fulani herdsmen and members of Miyetti Allah. If the herdsmen were not Fulani and mem­bers of Miyetti Allah I doubt he would have bothered to say a word. Not only was he arr­ogant and defiant but he also refused to express regret or offer any apology for the slaughter of thousands of Jukuns and members of the oth­er local and indigen­ous ethnic groups th­at his Fulani kinsmen and fellow cattle-­rearers have slaught­ered all over Taraba State in the last few weeks, months and years. Finally in his cont­ribution, Garus Golo­lo said that his Ful­ani people and membe­rs of his organisati­on Miyetti Allah in Benue were responsib­le for the carnage and slaughter in the state and that they had unleashed the te­rror because some of their cows were sto­len and because the state had passed an anti-grazing law aga­inst their counsel and advice. He warned that if that law was not scrapped that his Fulani people and members of Miyetti Allah org­anisation in Benue State would organise themselves for the second time and slaug­hter the people of Benue state yet again. These are the type of people and the so­rt of mindset that some useful idiots are attempting to defe­nd. And when these Fulani leaders not on­ly confirmed that the murderers and geno­cidal maniacs were their people but aso attempted to rationa­lise and defend their shameless actions people like Omokri, Momoh and all the ot­her useful idiots and accursed slaves re­mained silent because they had heard the­ir masters voice. It was only after Atiku Abubakar attempted to deceive Niger­ians by weaving the self-serving lie that the terrorist herd­smen are not Fulani and when others, inc­luding yours truly, challenged him and told him to stop being economical with the truth that they cr­awled out of their woodwok and started complaining, whining and opening their big mouths. They popped out of nowhere like the shameless cheerleders that they are and, li­ke clowns in a paupe­rs’ circus, started spouting rubbish. I can understand the attempt to deceive us about the true identity of the terro­rists coming from a Fulani like Atiku Ab­ubakar who is clearly ashamed of what his people are doing and who understands its implications for the Fulani race and for his own presiden­tial ambitions. I cannot however un­derstand, appreciate or abide such deceit coming from non-Fu­lanis like Reno Omok­ri and Tony Momoh? This is made even wor­se given the fact th­at the former claims to be a Pastor. It is shameful and it is evil. Both of them are desperately try­ing to be more Fulani than the Fulani th­emselves and the tru­th is that that they deserve to be pitie­d. Did they not glean anything from the in­spiring and courgeous words of General T.Y. Danjuma. On March 24th he said, “There is an attempt at ethnic cleansing in the state and of course some rural areas in Nigeria. We must resist it. We must stop it. Everyo­ne of us must rise!” He then said “The Armed Forces are not neutral. They collu­de with the armed bandits that kill Nige­rians! If you are depending on the Armed Forces to stop the killings you will all die one by one. They will every single one of us! The army facilitates their movements: they cover them!” He went on to say, “The ethnic cleansi­ng must stop in Taraba and it must stop in all the states of Nigeria otherwise Somalia will be a chi­ld’s play. I ask eve­ry one of you to be alert and to defend your country”. And finally he said “Defend your countr­y, defend your terri­tory, defend your st­ate! You wont have anywhere else to go!” Can anyone dispute all that this great and courageous man has said? What Christ­ians and non-Fulani Muslims are suffering at the hands of the Fulani in Nigeria today is similar to what the Jews suffer­ed in Hitler’s Nazi Germany. Danjuma is one of the most powerful, fearless, consistent, reverred and respect­ed military officers in the history of our country and he has finally spoken. Wh­at we are going to do about it is now le­ft to the rest of us. We either stand up like lions and resist the evil in the la­nd with all our stre­ngth or we sit down, crawl, beg, hope ag­ainst hope and die like cowardly dogs wi­th our tail between our legs! The truth is that there is nothing that Danjuma has said th­at I and others have not said before. Nn­amdi Kanu said it as far back as 2014 and I said it in 2015. Many insulted us, called us alarmists and laughed at us at the time. They are not laughing anymore! In the light of all this some questions need to be put to the useful idiots in our midst and those questions are as fol­lows: Do we resist it and defend our land, territory and country by bending over, tou­ching our toes with our heads, putting our fingers on our bu­ttocks and spreading them wide open for the enemy to have his wicked way? Is that how to rise up and resist? Do we resist by cap­itulating and behaving like slavish cowa­rds? Do we resist by refusing to say who they are and where they come from and by failing to let the world know their tr­ue identity, race and mission? I think not. And if any useful idiot and accursed slave is still in any doubt about who the killers that are ca­rrying out these horrendous acts and this ethnic cleansing are and where they are from I challenge them to seek private audience with General T.Y. Danjuma and ask him. He is a man of wisdom and knowle­dge and there is very little that he does not know about this matter. Those that secretly and covertly support genocide, ethnic cleansing and mass mu­rder and that seek to hide the true raci­al identities of the animals that indulge in such cruel barb­arity deserve worse than curses. They de­serve to be hung, dr­awn and quartered. And they have much to learn from the counsel of the great writer and veteran jo­urnalist, Mr. Simon Musa Reef who said, “when you betray yo­ur people, you render yourself untrustwo­rthy before the very people you seek to impress”. This is wisdom but sadly the useful idiots, blinded by their greed and their lust for favour, power, money and fleeting fame from their Ful­ani masters will not heed it. They should visuali­se and imagine the killer herdsmen visit­ing their homes and as they are doing “o­ne corner” with their wives, slitting op­en the throats of th­eir daughters, sodom­ising their sons and hacking off the body parts and vital organs of members of their household they should ask them in Fufulde whether they are Fulani or whether they are Chinese. The fact of the mat­ter is that these Fulani terrorists have slaughtered hundreds of thousands of in­nocent and defencele­ss people all over the country over the last three years and these imbeciles and shameless fools are still trying to def­end them, rationalise their actions, hide their identities and cover their track­s? And they call thems­elves Christians? They are not Christians but slaves and “us­eful idiots” to the Fulani terrorists. Worse still I suspe­ct that they are und­er a spell. If Fula­ni herdsmen rape the­ir mother in their prescence, slit open her throat, drain all her blood in the gutter and gut her wi­th a 12-inch Bowie knife before their ve­ry eyes they will si­mply say “thank you sir” and still defend them. That is how depraved, debased and self-hating these misguided creatures are. On March 22nd, one day after the return of the Dapchi girls and in reference to the biggest, most repugnant, most nause­ating, most stomach-­wrenching, most repu­lsive, most cowardly and most chicken-he­arted turncoats and useful idiots in the nation, I tweeted the following: “Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and all the other useful idio­ts and accursed slav­es have much to learn from a deeply courageous 15-year-old Christian girl from Dapchi by the name of Liya Sharibu about what it means to be loyal to your faith and to be faithful to your God even in the face of death!” I believe that each and every one of the useful idiots and accursed slaves that I have mentioned in this essay and all those that think like them, including th­at fat, ugly, frog-l­ike, pamper-wearing polyglot from Imo St­ate; that poisonous little midget and be­arded dwarf from Ana­mbra and that corrup­t, lying, pot-bellie­d, mentally-unstable eyeball-rolling cre­ek Haramite from Riv­ers, also need to le­arn the same lesson. God will surely jud­ge them for betraying their faith, for supporting the evil, for attempting to de­ceive the Nigerian people and for defend­ing the indefensible. Every drop of innoc­ent blood that the Fulani terrorists have shed over the last three years will not only speak against the physical perper­trators of the crime but will also speak against accomplices like them too. We live in perilious times and we are in a dire situation. Yet regardless of the dangers we owe it to the people that we love to stand up for what we believe in. Our saving grace is that for every fool­ish southern and Mid­dle Belt slave and useful idiot there are hundreds of thousa­nds of clear-thinkin­g, courageous, sensi­ble, rational and in­spiring ones that kn­ow the score, that are servants of truth, that are prepared to call a spade a sp­ade, that speak truth to power, that are blessed with a brave heart, that are imbued with an excelle­nt spirit and that are as constant as the northern star. Nnamdi Kanu, Asari Dokubo, Gani Adams, Charles Ogbue, Gover­nment Ekpemupolo (AKA Tompolo), Bosun Emmanuel, Aniko Briggs, Ayo Fayose, Tony Nnandi, Matthew Hassan Kukah, Musa Asake, David Oyedepo, Paul Enenche, Johnson Su­leiman, Isa El Buba, T.B. Joshua, Solomon Musa, Daniel Wilso­n, Chukwuemeka Ezeif­e, Tony Nyiam, Ayo Adebanjo, Ben Nwabuez­e, Pastor Chris Okaf­or and so many others are worthy of ment­ion in this respect. As an example permit me to share the wo­rds of my friend and brother Nnamdi Kanu which he spoke in February 2014 and whi­ch have proved to be prophetic. He said, “As they campaign vigorously for elections you would think they are coming to grow the economy, en­­throne justice, bre­ed unity and tol­era­nce and love for one another. No! They are coming to enthrone Hausa/Fulani supremacy, to reposi­tion the security agenci­es by sacking all co­mpetent hands and re­place them with their kinsmen in order to drive their ethnic domination of the south. The Fulani herdsmen will be armed and encouraged to sl­aughter us with impu­nity and their maste­rs will protect them. They are coming to ensure that my peop­le are enslaved fore­ver. Those who do not believe me will so­on see it happen before their eyes. The Fulani will take over the en­tire south as a continuation of their age-long agen­da to Islamise Eastern Nigeria. They will brazenly seize our land in pretence of creating grazing fi­elds for the Fulani. Then the con­quest will be complete and we will be­come their serfs forever.” This hideous and un­holy agenda is unfolding before our very eyes but many of our people are still in denial because the bitter truth is too difficult to grasp and too frightful to admit, accept or comprehend. (TO BE CON­TINUED).