By Aderogba George Abuja –  Citizens Advocacy for Social and Economic Rights (CASER), a Civil Society Organisation (CSO) has appealed to Globacom Chairman, Mr Mike Adenuga to compensate the married women recently sacked from his company. In a statement signed in Abuja by the Executive Director of the CSO, Mr Frank Tietie said the compensation was necessary. Tietie explained that the recent termination of the appointment of over 100 Nigeria women by Globacom on March 9 could be linked to their status as married women and was unfair to the world’s labour practice. “CASER views the act of subjecting these women to beauty tests such as posessing good body shapes or declaring the number of child births recorded, amongst other criteria, as an obnoxious. “It is highly offensive and unfair labour practice, it amounts to violation of the fundamental human rights of the married women which should attract punitive sanctions with wide international condemnation. “Such action by Globacom is violation of women’s right to freedom from discrimination as provided by Section 42 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and other applicable international human rights instruments,” he said. Tietie said that the sacked of the married women a day after the International Women’s Day March 8, was a mockery of the internationally held values on women in general. CASER demanded N50 million for each of the women as compensation for the trauma they have been put through by this action. He added that failure of the company to compensate the sacked married women within seven days, beginning from the day the company received the letter of demand, would attract administrative and legal consequences. Tietie called on the company to comply with the demand to show that it was a business entity that respected the peculiar fundamental human rights of Nigeria women. He said that the letter had already been copied to the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Minister of Women Affair, the Executive Vice Chairman, Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC), among others. (NAN)