ABUJA (Sundiata Post) “Obasanjo is not my cup of tea. I have never been his fan but if Abacha kills him over this phoney, contrived so-called coup attempt, we would make this country ungovernable for Abacha” – Gani Fawehinmi   The above quote succinctly encapsulates my position and intervention on infraction of peoples fundamental human Rights.  I believe it is evil and ungodly to be selective in condemning abuse of human rights because of political interests and support.  In 1984, when General Muhammed Buhari introduced Decrees 2 and 4, l condemned it.  When Chief Gani Fawehinmi, in 1984 issued a statement to support the execution of three drug couriers, Ogedegbe, Ojulope and Owoh, who were tried with retroactive Decrees, l countered and criticised Gani for supporting the public  execution because the trio were tried under a retroactive decree. This was despite my closeness to Gani.  In 1985, when then President Ibrahim Babandida put his predecessor, General Muhammed Buhari under house arrest for several months, l condemned IBB and campaigned for the release of General Buhari from house arrest. It didn’t matter that l had criticised Buhari as Head of State. It’s a matter of fairness and my belief that he was being badly treated.  During the time we were running the Civil Liberties Organization (CLO), we consistently fought against military arbitrariness. We never liked the military. But after the April 22, 1990 aborted Orkar’s coup and the trial of the coupists, some officers were set free by the military tribunal. Two of the freed officers were not released one year after they were discharged and acquitted. They were rotting away inside Kirikiri prisons. Despite the fact that we didn’t like the military, we took up the advocacy for the release of the officers. After much pressure, we managed to secure the release of Majors West and Akwashiki. It was a matter of human rights not about our bias against the military.  When Obasanjo and others were framed over a phantom coup, we vigorously campaigned for their release. Ditto for General Diya and co, despite the fact that we never liked the military.  A number of officers of SSS and police who had been unjustly treated and shown way out of service, we took up their struggle. We never looked at the fact that they were once our traducers. Its a matter of principle for fighting for anyone unjustly treated.  Despite all the atrocities of Major Hamza Al-Mustapha under Abacha, when he was arrested in 1999, we insisted he should either be charged to court or be released. It was a matter of principle.  The same principle applies today.  I therefore find it appalling, insidious and absolutely irresponsible for anyone to justify the abridgment of a citizen’s fundamental right because of political affiliation and support. Woe betide me any day l try to justify that because of political correctness. It is evil. Governments come and go. If tomorrow, the right of president Buhari or even the Director of DSS is abridged, it behooves on me to fight for them. Governments come and go. But our consciences remain constant. Do what is right, even if you are standing alone. Stop political correctness and follow your conscience.   *Source: Facebook