By Ciaran Mcgrath  David Olusoga has claimed Winston Churchill was a war criminal. And David Olusoga, who co-presents the BBC’s new Civilisations series, said those who criticised tributes to various historical figures should not be derided as “snowflakes”.  Mr Olusoga made his sensational claims during a speech to the Oxfordshire Literary Festival.  Suggesting that “almost all historical figures did good and bad”, Mr Olusoga said academics were entering a period of ‘history wars’ in which accepted versions of Britain’s past are being challenged.  He explained: “So while I’m personally glad that Churchill overcame Halifax in early 1940 and it was Churchill who faced the Nazis that year and the years that followed, that doesn’t mean that he wasn’t somebody that wasn’t responsible, or largely responsible, for the Bengal famine of 1943-44.  Mr Olusoga claimed even some members of his cabinet found Mr Churchill’s views “shocking”
It doesn’t mean that he wasn’t someone who took part in things we would consider war crimes in Africa.  “It doesn’t mean that he wasn’t someone who took part in things we would consider war crimes in Africa.  “It doesn’t mean that his views, the things he espoused, were shocking to members of his Cabinet, never mind to people at the time.  “We’re going to have to accommodate the fact that these things are true, and there are two sides to these stories and we’re not good at it.”  Mr Olusoga claimed people were brought up with a “certain version” of British history so that some subjects become “sacrosanct”. Sir Winston Churchill shows the peace sign while smoking a cigar in 1954.  He added: “Certain people, we only want to hear the good things that they do. Certain events, we only want to hear the stories that we’re familiar with.  ‘And other people want to tell different stories, so we have this conflict. I think these are the history wars we are having.”  He cited a statue of slave trader Edward Colton in Bristol, explaining that one woman had told him she had felt “humiliated” by a statue of someone who had owned her ancestors towering over her as she cycled to work.  Mr Olusoga said: “I think we’re struggling to come to terms with the fact that things we’re familiar with actually mean something to somebody else and it’s a real challenge. “Their voices are legitimate and their feelings mean something and they aren’t snowflakes and they aren’t trying to end history. They have a real case. It’s partly because we get into this idea of heroes.”  Mr Olusoga, whose father is Nigerian, also discussed the British Empire, and said countries including China and India “haven’t forgotten” this period.  He said: “We don’t get the right to choose which bits we remember. This idea that these histories are dormant is naive. The holding back of the tide of acknowledging and apologising is doomed to the weight of what’s coming.  “There are statues all over this country of people that have a different reputation in countries that are critical to our future.” Source (Express .co.uk)