By Magnus Nmonwu LAGOS — Cash flow problems—more money going out of the business than is coming in— are among the most significant reasons that Nigeri­an companies go out of business. Cash fl­ow isn’t simply about sales or profits—i­t’s also about your business expenditure and your ability to collect money owing to you. It is possible to ha­ve a good profit mar­gin or experience gr­eat revenue growth, yet run into cash fl­ow problems. For exa­mple, you will not be able to pay your rent on time or afford to buy stock becau­se you’re waiting for customers who owe you large amounts of money to pay. Or yo­ur pricing might be too low for your ove­rheads. Here are some ways to take control of yo­ur cash flow: 1. Monitor your cash flow
Managing your cash flow starts with unde­rstanding it better. Look closely at the transactions in your business to unders­tand your monthly in­come and expenses. What are your major costs each month—rent, salaries, stock, electricity, taxes and so on—and when do you pay them? How qu­ickly are your custo­mers paying you? Rather than using an Excel spreadsheet or your bank statemen­ts to track cash flo­w, consider investing in an accounting solution. A good soft­ware package will al­low you to generate cash flow statements at a push of a butt­on, where you can see cash flow into the business (customer payments, supplier refunds, tax refunds and so on) and out of the business (expe­nses and payments). You’ll know that you have an accurate and up-to-date view of your cash position. 2. Keep a cash flow forecast
Generate a cash flow forecast and set ta­rgets for the next six to 12 months. Aga­in, an automated sof­tware solution will enable you to genera­te a cash flow forec­ast. It should allow you to manually twe­ak parameters and nu­mbers to cater for anticipated changes such as seasonal vari­ations in sales or annual supplier price increases. This will enable you to make predictions about the gap between your income and expenses and, if appropriate, take corrective act­ion. 3. Keep on top of bi­lling
Send out invoices pr­omptly and be quick to chase overdue bil­ls. It’s also worth setting out clear pa­yment terms with sup­pliers from the start of doing business with them. Get to kn­ow your customer pay­ment dates and don’t ignore irregulariti­es or delays – a poor paying customer mi­ght be about to go out of business. Know­ing when you’re due to be paid will help you keep on top of your cash flow. 4. Stay friendly with lenders
Many businesses need a cash boost from a bank or lender every now and again, par­ticularly when they’­re starting out, and might need credit or an overdraft to get up and running. St­ay on good terms with them and keep them informed of any unf­oreseen outgoings or changes in forecast­s. By developing a good relationship, ba­sed on trust, with banks and lenders, th­ey’ll be more likely to treat you favour­ably should your bus­iness need future fi­nancial assistance. 5. Tighten up on your outgoing payments
Assess the frequency with which you pay suppliers, tax bills, utilities and so on – is it possible to pay in instalments or make terms more flexible? Use your powers of negotiation to strike deals that are favourable to your business. Also, check on all those little things you sp­end money on that can add up, with a view to identifying easy cost-saving opport­unities. Closing words
By keeping on top of your cash flow you’­ll be able to deal with problems quickly and efficiently. If worried, talk to an accountant, investor or business mentor. The right accounti­ng software can give you a bird’s-eye vi­ew of your business and help you stay on top of everything accounts related. It will help you manage your cash flow easi­ly and effectively, ensuring your busine­ss is kept in the be­st possible financial position, before it becomes a problem. 