Owerri –  Brig-Gen. S.Z Kazaure, the NYSC Director General, has advised employers of corps members to make adequate budgetary provisions for
welfare of NYSC members posted to them. Kazaure gave the advice in Oweri on Wednesday in a keynote address at the two-day 2018 Workshop for corps employers with the theme: “Tackling Emerging Challenges in Youth Corps Aministration through greater Stakeholders Participation”. He was represented by Mr Femi Osungbohun, Assistant Director (Corps Welfare and Inspectorate), National Directorate, Abuja. Kazaure said that the Federal Government had directed that government ministries, departments and agencies should no longer reject corps members posted to them. He said that the service had recorded great successes in the online registration and clearance of corps members. “In addition, management has increased the number of regular inspection of corps members at their places of primary assignment, while ensuring that absentee corps members are duly sanctioned,” he said. Mrs Josephine Bakare, the NYSC Coordinator in Imo, said that the negative tendencies of corps members rejection, underutilisation and evasion of service contravened the letters and spirit of establishing the scheme. Bakare was represented by Mr Mike Obemeata, Assistant Director (Deployment and Relocation) in NYSC. She said that there was the need to beam searchlight on the various stakeholders to examine the extent to which they “knowingly or inadvertently facilitate these unwholesome tendencies.” She said that in accordance with the provisions of enabling NYSC Acts, Bye Laws, Rules and Regulations, employers were expected to make presentations of their needs for corps members to the secretariat, according to areas of specialisation. Bakare said the employers were also expected to accept the corps members and provide welfare facilities including accommodation, transportation and medical services as done to their regular staff. She, however, expressed regret that in spite of all efforts by the scheme, the challenge of corps rejection, underutilisation and evasion of service had persisted. She attributed the challenge to lack of synergy between corps employers and the state secretariat, adding that as long as postings were done without strict compliance with corps employers’ request, the challenge of corps rejection would persist. According to her, the challenge of corps underutilisation, to a large extent, is a function of the level of underdevelopment of the society. The Imo NYSC coordinator said the way out was the organisation of a workshop where management and corps employers would rob minds on best practices to optimally utilise the skills of corps members. Mr Ifeanyichukwu Onwueyiagba, the state Commissioner for Talent and Youth Development and Chairman NYSC Governing Board in Imo, commended the NYSC for organising the forum, which he said, would address the challenges. Onwueyiagba, represented by Mr Charles Madukaji, a Director in the ministry, urged the stakeholders to seriously deliberate on the challenges with a view to providing solutions. He described NYSC as a corrective scheme and as such any report of misbehaviour by corps members should be treated with every seriousness. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the stakeholders, made up of rectors, principals, headmistresses, proprietors and proprietress of various schools in the state, head of other organisations and establishments complained of wanton abscondment of duty posts by corps members. They also complained that NYSC management was posting corps members to them that were not within their areas of need, corps members that begged to be rejected and those that lacked discipline. (NAN)