ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The Chairman, House of Representatives committee on Capital Market and Other Institutions, Hon. Tajudeen Yusuf, at the weekend called on President Muhammadu Buhari, the Nigeria Police Force and all the security agencies in the country to give Kogi State the attention and support that it deserves towards tackling crime and ensuring security. The lawmaker who represents, Kabba/Bunu/Ijumu Federal Constituency, in the House, said that, “I express our deep collective sadness and shock as we commiserate with our brothers and sisters in Dekina and Omala local government areas over the callous attacks in which more than 25 persons lost their lives last Wednesday”. The statement reads: “It is utterly regrettable and very worrisome that human beings can be wantonly shot and slaughtered in their dwellings with homes and farms being razed to the ground across Oganenigu, Iyale, Aloko, Abejukolo and other rural communities by suspected herdsmen. “In this period of sorrow and mourning , I implore our state and local government councils to make consultations with our traditional rulers and community leaders towards putting very effective measures in place as we cannot afford a repeat of such extremely callous experience in any part of Kogi State. “On my part, I assure the government and people of our state of my support and commitment in the search for firm and lasting solutions. “We must all insist that those who killed and maimed our people in Kogi East must be fished out to face the law; the entire people of Kogi state must shun political, religious or ethnic differences and unite decisively against those things that threaten peaceful progress and development. “I also call on President Muhammadu Buhari, the Nigeria Police Force and all the security agencies in Nigeria to give Kogi State the attention and support that it deserves towards tackling crime and ensuring security. “Whatever the Federal Government does to facilitate peace and a secured environment in Kogi State would positively impact on millions of other Nigerians who daily have cause to pass through Kogi State – a state that directly serves as transit area for people passing through to Abuja and about 12 states. “As we pray for God to give our people in the affected areas the strength to carry on in this troubling times , we must all do everything possible to prevent a repeat of such mind-numbing terror that has now put us in sorrow and tears; the Federal and Kogi State
governments must ensure that it is never repeated”, the statement concluded.