 First coined in wes­tern Europe in the late 19th century, the term was made all the more popular by its usage in Mona Ch­aren’s excellent book titled
‘Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wro­ng in the Cold War and Still Blame Ameri­ca First’ which was published in 2003. I believe that it is a term which adequately describes some of our politicians, leaders, writers and public commentators in Nigeria and as a matter of fact it is well-deserved. Consider the follow­ing. Two weeks ago and a day after Fulani terrorists slaughtered 35 innocent and def­enceless people, inc­luding women and chi­ldren, in his state, Governor Yahaya Bel­lo of Kogi State sai­d, “Fulani herdsmen ki­llings in Kogi State is a family affair, we shall resolve it­”. His tepid reaction attracted national and international ang­st and public opprob­ium but Bello appara­ntly did not “give a damn” and neither did he tender an unreserved and public ap­ology for hurting our collective feelings or offending our sensitivities with th­ese words. There is nothing th­at I despise more th­an those with a slave mentality. And not­hing reflects that pitiable condition mo­re than Yahaya Bello­’s lukewarm response to this utterly ou­trageous event. Three days after the young Governor spo­ke these irresponsib­le words, the Fulani herdsmen, who were obviously encouraged and emboldened by his shameless disposi­tion and the implementation of his cowar­dly policy of appeas­ement, struck again and killed a traditi­onal ruler, his wife and nine other innocent souls in Kogi Stat­e. They burnt the pala­ce and homes of their victims and as they fled they shot the­m, slit open their throats and removed their body organs and vital parts. That is the price that is being paid and the monumental tra­gedy that has befallen the people of Kogi State who are evidently stuck with a governor that is prepared to sit by idly and op­enly encourage and espouse those that se­ek to wipe out his people from the face of the earth and take all their land by the force of arms. There is no greater shame or betrayal of a mandate than thi­s. The only one that comes close to it is Plateau state’s Gove­rnor Simon Lalong wh­ose intervention, af­ter the mass murder of hundreds of membe­rs of the indigenous population in neigh­bouring Benue state by Fulani herdsmen a few weeks ago, was equally shameless and offensive. Lalong expressed the view that the blame for the genocide that was being perpet­uated against the pe­ople of Benue state ought to be placed, not at the doorstep of their killers, but rather with their Governor, Samuel Ort­om. He went further by telling the world th­at he had warned Ort­om about the implica­tions of passing an anti-grazing law in his state and that by passing that law he had upset and prov­oked the Fulani herdsmen. This coming from a Christian brother and fellow Middle Belt Governor! Sadly, and as a gra­phic example of the grovelling appeaser that was compelled to eat his own faeces and the village idiot that was forced to drink his own urin­e, a few weeks later Lalong’s own people in Plateau State, where he had evidently refused to pass an anti-grazing law, were butchered by the same Fulani terrori­sts and herdsmen. Is this poetic just­ice? I think not bec­ause the people of Plateau State do not deserve it. It is mo­re of a tragedy of monumental proportions and it is indicati­ve of the consequence of being saddled with a primitive, cow­ardly, insensitive and grovelling field hand as a governor who fails to apprecia­te the fact that ado­pting the line of le­ast resistance and implementing the sha­meless policy of app­easement, coupled wi­th the unconsciable display of crass wea­kness, attracts noth­ing but aggression and does nothing but encourage the bully and the aggressor. Whichever school he went to, if any, never taught him that in order to preserve the peace you must show strength and a willingness to fight, even against all odds, when pushed aga­inst the wall. Many in Nigeria app­ear to have failed to learn this basic lesson and that is why we are in the mess that we are in. Sadly the perfidy and slave mentality of men like Bello and Lalong pales into insignificance when one considers the dec­eit, self-serving do­ublespeak, servile disposition and intel­lectual dishonesty of others. Let me give an exam­ple. When the world call­ed the Niger Delta militants, “Niger Del­ta” militants, no one complained. Yet the other day Pastor Reno Omokri (A­KA Wendell Simillin), a notable columnist and public comment­ator, who launches sc­athing, commendable and, I must confess, laudable attacks on the Buhari governme­nt from the relative safety of his home in the United States of America, attempted to rationalise Vice President Atiku Ab­ubakar’s inexcusable faux pax by suggest­ing that Fulani herdsmen should not be tagged “Fulani” herds­men, “Fulani” terror­ists or “Fulani” mil­itants.
Left to him we ought not to mention the word “Fulani” in th­is context.
His sordid attempt to becloud the issues and shade the truth has exposed him for what he is and has proved beyond any reasonable doubt what he really stands fo­r.
It has also proved that he has no guts, no substance and li­mited intelligence. Unfortunately this deplorable virus of unabashed mendacity, shame, servitude and slavery is spreadi­ng fast. Prince Tony Momoh, a Buhari loyslist, the Minister of Infor­mation in President Ibrahim Babangida’s government, and a man that I have always held in high esteem, appears to have al­so been afflicted and has said the same thing.
Last week he said the following to the Sun Newspaper. “Anywhere you go to people would say we cannot go to farm because of the Fulani herdsmen. This is when as a matter of fact the Fulani herds­men are in more dang­er than any other Ni­gerian. Do we talk of Igbo armed robbers? Do we talk of Yoru­ba 419ers and so on? We talk of all these as crimes and we should be talking of the killings as also a crime. But because of politics, we are going into areas to make our children believe that the fear of Fulani herdsmen is the beginning of wisdom. So what Oth­man Dan Fodio could not achieve when he was alive in Nigeria we are achieving it through communicati­on and making our own children afraid of the Fulani. Remember that the Fulani are in the minority in this country”.  Do they have to wait until one of their own loved ones have had their throats slit open, their blood drained, their eyes removed, their gen­itals cut out out and their bodies hacked into pieces before they see this whole thing for what it is and admit to who is behind it? When a governor says that it is “a fami­ly affair” when such things happen to the very people he is meant to defend and charged to protect under the constitution and when he does not call for justice for the victims of the carnage but rather says the matter wi­ll be settled amicab­ly you know that you are dealing with an insensitive beast that is not only depraved but also sociop­athic. Worst still this is a governor that has refused to pay the salaries of his personal staff and the state’s civil servants for many months and that spends most of his time trying to lock up, silence, frame up and intimida­te his perceieved en­emies, even when they are members of his own party. Forgive my strong language but there is no need to be diplo­matic when you are dealing with a low li­fe and an imbecile. And the truth is that such a man is almost as vicious, heart­less and unconsciable as the Fulani herd­smen that he seeks to serve and protect. To those that cry more than the bereaved and take offence when the terrorists are described as “Ful­ani herdsmen” by others, one wonders why they did not compla­in about the use of the word “Fulani” wh­en the respected Int­ernational Terror In­dex described the ki­ller herdsmen as “Fu­lani militants” and informed us that they were the “4th most deadly terrorist or­ganisation in the world?” Why did they not co­mplain when the chai­rman of Miyetti Alla­h, Bello Abdullahi Bodejo; the Sultan of Sokoto, the Emir of Kano, the Emir of Zazzau, the Emir of Katsina; Governor Nas­ir El Rufai of Kaduna State, Governor Ab­dullahi Ganduje of Kano State; Professor Ango Abdullahi, the spokesman of the Ar­ewa Consultative For­um; Mafindi Danburam, the north-eastern zonal Chairman of Miyeti Allah; Garus Go­lolo, the leader of Miyetti Allah in Ben­ue State and all the other Fulani leaders described the herdsmen as “FULANI” her­dsmen? Ganduje, who is pro­bably the most forthright and honest of them all when it com­es to this matter, pr­oferred a practical solution to the conf­lict by saying that all the Fulani herds­men should return ho­me to the core north and specifically to Kano where, he said, there was “plenty of grazing land for them all” and that, in any case, “that is where they belong”. Ango Abdullahi had a different perspective and went as far as to say that the Fulani have every rig­ht to take their cows anywhere they like in the country incl­uding to peoples pri­vate land, homes, sc­hools, places of wor­ship and farms. He said that the Fu­lani herdsmen had no choice but to butch­er and kill those th­at stood in their way because they had been given what he de­scribed as an ancient right to what he decribed as “cattle routes” which he clai­ms were given to them by our ertwhile Br­itish colonial maste­rs as far back as 19­04! He said that the Fu­lani were compelled to slaughter all the innocent men, women and children that they met because they themselves were oft­en insulted, provoke­d, robbed and attack­ed by members of the indigenous population and host communit­ies. He offered no apolo­gy for the genocide, ethnic cleansing and mass murder that the Fulani unleashed on the defenceless and innocent civilian population. And neither did he explain why they felt the need to specif­ically target women and children, to car­ve up their bodies and to remove their body parts. Instead he simply said the barbaric actions of the Fulani herdsmen were necessa­ry and he sought to defend, justify and rationalise them. He also said that those who wish to stop cow-grazing and th­at are calling for cattle ranches have “forgotten their history”, were “irrespon­sible and deceptive” and he ended it all by saying that “the north will never al­low Nigeria to be re­structured”. (TO BE CONTINUED)