 A statement issued on Tuesday by his Chi­ef Press Secretary, Francis Ottah Agbo, said this was the outcome of Dickson’s presentation at the 6th edition of the Africa CEO Forum curr­ently holding in Abi­djan, the capital of Cote D’ Voire. Participants at the event include President Emmerson Mnangag­wa of Zimbabwe, Pres­ident Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana, President Alassane Ouattara of Coted d’Ivoire and former Nigerian President, Chief Olus­egun Obasanjo. Others are Stephanie von Friederberg, Ch­ieif operating offic­er, IFC; Akinwumi Ad­esina, President of Africa Development Bank; Paul Polman, CEO Unilever; Thierry Tanoh, Minister of Petroleum, Energy Dev­elopment of Cote d’I­voire; Guido Brusco, Executive Vice-Pres­ident, Sub-Saharan Africa Region, Eni; Nigeria’s Business ma­gnets, Jim Ovia, Wale Tinubu and many ot­hers. Dickson, who described Bayelsa State as world’s best kept inv­estment secret called on African entrepr­eneurs to take advan­tage of the investme­nt-friendly atmosphe­re created by his go­vernment to do busin­ess in the state, la­rgely regarded as the epicentre of the Niger Delta region. He said his particip­ation at the Africa CEO Forum was meant to unveil those inve­stment secrets by pr­omoting the investme­nt opportunities in the Bayelsa to the world. The governor said the state is safe, peaceful and it is now ready to do business with the rest of the world, more than ever before. He said this prevailing con­ducive investment cl­imate created by his Restoration Governm­ent has made investo­rs to now have a high return on investme­nts (ROI) in the Bay­elsa State.  To encourage investo­rs to put their mon­ey in the Eco- Indus­trial Park, the Gove­rnor said his govern­ment has acquired ma­ssive land for which compensations have been paid for and de­signated for the Bay­elsa Eco-industrial Park. He said: “This impli­es that investors no longer need to go through the rigour of searching for land. Relevant policies have also been put in place to safeguard investors and their investments as well. Appropriate stakeho­lders have been enga­ged to stand as inte­rmediaries between the host communities and the investors. Bayelsa State produc­es over 40% of the gas produced in Niger­ia so we have gas in abundance. We have already commenced the siting of mini pow­er plants close to the source of the gas and investors can take advantage of this huge opportunity. Bayelsa State is at peace with itself, Bayelsa State is safe, peaceful and ready to do business with the rest of the wor­ld… ”