ABUJA (Sundiata Post) “The problem in Benue State, started worsening because the IGP refused to follow my instruction. What I did was to call him(IGP) and give him the directive to relocate to Benue but i didn’t know he has moved from here (Benue state) to Nassarawa. It’s now that I am knowing that.” President Muhammadu Buhari We are finished as a people to see how president Buhari turned our country into a theater of mockery and international ridicule over his unpresidential statement at Benue, aired on national T.V nay international. Sad commentary. We are finished as a people to know that a bloody civilian police IG does not take security directives from the supposed Commander-in-Chief. What an irony ? We are finished as a people to know that for more than 70 days, the supposed Commander in Chief. could not be briefed on security report by his service chiefs, that was why he did not know the way about of the IGP during the genocide in Benue. Worrisome tale. We are finished as a people to know that president Buhari is not empathetic even to the feelings of the bereaved families, that was why he could launch such a grave lie to justify his inhumanity instead of apology. Too bad.
We are finished as a people to know that president Buhari could shamelessly passed such an infantile blame of his failure to an appointee who is at the mercy of his service. Unbelievable. We are finished as a people to know that president Buhari is not in charge of governmental afairs, hence does not know where he’s leading the country to. State of dilemma. We are finished as a nation to know that president and the supposed Commander-in-Chief. can only bark at the appointees over insubordination but cannot bite, that is why there are more blame than service rendered. Story for the gods. We are finished, worst still, as a nation to know that sombody with proven sanity can still exude confidence in president Buhari’s government, after the Benue disgrace and show of gross incompetence in all spheres of governance. Shocked. Source: Facebook