By Fortune Abang Abuja –  The Rotary Club of Abuja District 9125 has donated a borehole and power generator to Tasha community in Kabusa in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), to promote access to potable drinking water. Kabusa, a suburb of the FCT, is about 7 km away from the Abuja city centre. Mr Mbanefo Nnoka, the governor of the district, made the donation at the 2017-2018 rotary year star project inauguration on Saturday in Abuja. Nnoka said the borehole would help residents of the community to access potable drinking water and urged them to maintain it to ensure sustainability. “One problem is that when we do projects, community residents think it belongs to government, we will appreciate to see this project last long. “We all know how important water is to our lives, I am surprised that a community that is very close to the Abuja city centre does not have a source of potable drinking water. “Rotary sees what the government cannot see not because the government does not have the money, but we go down to the grassroots and keep in touch with the community. “The project is key because when we talk about water, we talk about sanitation, health, hygiene and so many things are associated with water, which makes its very important,’’ he said. Nnoka commended members of the district for the project and urged them to document their work to encourage successive leaders of the Club develop on it. He also advised leaders of the community to put in place measures that would ensure maintenance of the project, to encourage the club to do more. In her remarks, Mrs Yvonne Idugboe, the president of the district, said the donation was based on an earlier assessment by the club on the challenges facing the community. “We have been to the community several times and we considered the place as suitable location for our project because there is no electricity and potable water supply in the area. “The project cost N1. 5million and the money was sourced from donations by members, in line with our humanitarian service policy. “We selected the community because it is one of our adopted communities and besides the water project, we have embarked on series of other projects in the community health centre. “We provided support for pregnant women, we have also delivered text books that we got from Rotary International to schools located in the community to aid learning,’’ Idugboe said. Responding, one of the community leaders, Mr Yohanna Koche, thanked the club for donation, saying it would help to reduce the suffering of the residents. “On behalf of Kabusa people I thank you for all you have done for us, although we have nothing to give back, we pray God to reward you. Koche, however, promised to maintain the project to encourage the club to provide more support to the community. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the first borehole established in the community was provided by the FCT Administration under auspices of Millennium Development Goals project in 2009.(NAN)