By Obinna Unaeze Minna –   Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) on Tuesday urged
members of Master Bakers in Niger to adhere to Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) to ensure safety and protect public health. The Director-General of the organisation, Mr Osita Aboloma, made the call in Minna while inaugurating a one-day workshop for Association of Master Bakers and Confectionery (AMBC) in Niger. Represented by Mr Charles Nwagbara, North Central Regional Coordinator of SON, Osita also urged the bread and confectionery producers to adhere to Good Hygiene Practice (GHP) as stipulated in the relevant Nigeria Industrial Standards (NIS) to safeguard public health. He said “this forum will improve our knowledge on GMP and GHP as specified in the relevant NIS and other requirements.” He added that the measures would enable bakers to improve on the quality of products to surmount challenges in the sector. “Our experience through surveillance inspections shows that much remained to be learnt in this industry,’’ he said. He stressed the need for qualified personnel to handle food products. He, however, noted that the elimination of substandard products was the responsibility of all Nigerians, including manufacturers, importers, distributors, retailers and consumers. Mr Badewole Sunday, the state Coordinator of SON assured that the organisation would continue to sensitise stakeholders in the sector to adhere to modern techniques. Sunday said the theme of the workshop; “Food Standards a Must in the Food Industry” was carefully chosen to reflect what was required to ensure food safety and efficient service delivery. Mr Silvanus Umeh, the Chairman, Niger chapter of Association of Master Bakers and Confectionery lauded SON for the gesture, saying it would help members to conform to NIS. Umeh decried what he called “duplication of functions by SON and National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC)” saying it was making bakers to pay double tax for same purpose. (NAN)