Isaiah Eka Uyo –  The Federal Government has concluded plans to establish a Digital Job Centre in Akwa Ibom as part of measures to create jobs opportunities for the unemployed youths in the state. Dr Isa Pantami the Director-General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), made the disclosure at the 9th edition of Startup event for Akwa Ibom youths in Uyo on Saturday. Pantami said that NITDA would transform the centre to motivate and encourage the youths to come up with ICT solutions to the national challenges. According to him, the agency would support youths with ideas through ICT to proffer solutions to problems confronting the nation. “To encourage and boost the ICT ecosystem in Akwa-Ibom, NITDA is setting up a Digital Job Centre at the Government Secondary School, Afaha Eket, Eket LGA, Akwa-Ibom State. “I thank Gov. Udom Emmanuel and the good people of Akwa-Ibom for their support towards the success of this event,” Pantami said. He said the Startup programme was created to encourage every Nigerian to look inward in tackling Nigeria’s economic problems. Pantami explained that the centre would focus more in building technology entrepreneurs, adding ”ICT is inevitable and our future depends on it as ICT dominates the economy after oil. “We are aware of the harsh conditions in securing white collar jobs in the country, so it has become apparent for the government to focus more in building technology entrepreneurs. “A developed indigenous ICT ecosystem would help the country to diversify its economy from oil. “Data is the new oil. With the two local content related Presidential Orders, we need to focus on locally produced innovations for our local market. “NITDA intends to encourage and support ICT entrepreneurship and promote it as an attractive career option for the youth,” he said. In his remarks, the Commissioner for Science and Technology, Prof. Nse Essien, said that the state government had embraced ICT in finding solutions to some issues facing the state. Essien, said Startup was a meeting place where all ICT professionals gathered to brainstorm on problems solving. He urged the youths to embrace the programme and take serious attention to achieve the required result. “We have very good talents in the state to key into the programme. As a state, we are doing everything possible to ensure that ICT is embrace in every spheres of governance,” he said. (NAN)