By Nse Anthony -Uko (Sundiata Post)– As part of efforts to improve electricity supply across the country, the Federal Government said it has completed arrangements to roll out 10,000 minigrids in order to support electrification of rural communities. The Managing Director of Nigerian Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Damilola Ogunbiyi, disclosed this during the kick-off a three-day minigrid charrette in collaboration with Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI), and the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), in Lagos on Wednesday .
Addressing the participant, Ogunbiyi said, “With the current regulatory landscape, Nigeria is the best market to do minigrids.”
Speaking on the opportunities the meeting will offer participants, she said, “This multibillion-dollar revenue opportunity will create sustainable energy for hundreds of millions of people and combine the power of global supply chains with local market entrepreneurs and communities.” On his part, Chief Executive Officer, Rocky Mountain Institute, Jules Kortenhorst, said, “I’m positive we have the right people in the room and they will deliver a financially viable solution that will truly be a game changer for the market and more importantly, for the people and communities who will gain access to power for the first time.” The conference is bringing together leading global stakeholders and investors to create an actionable and scalable roadmap for the federal government. The goal of the 20 by 20 Design Charrette is to cut costs of minigrid delivered electricity by over 60 percent by addressing items such as system costs, demand stimulation, and enabling policy. High-potential markets and specific minigrid sites in Nigeria will be used to pilot the recommendations from the charrette. Meanwhile, the Design Charrette which is closing on Friday, March 9, will release its findings to the public in coming weeks. RMI’s Sustainable Energy for Economic Development (SEED) program has worked in sub-Saharan Africa since 2016. SEED provides impartial technical, policy and financial advice on energy system development, and collaboration with government, development partners, and the private sector to ensure successful implementation of our recommendations. The Rockefeller Foundation and Virgin Unite sponsor the SEED program. Schneider Electric sponsored the Design Charrette. Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI)—an independent nonprofit founded in 1982—transforms global energy use to create a clean, prosperous, and secure low-carbon future. It engages businesses, communities, institutions, and entrepreneurs to accelerate the adoption of market-based solutions that cost-effectively shift from fossil fuels to efficiency and renewables. RMI has offices in Basalt and Boulder, Colorado; New York City; Washington, D.C.; and Beijing.