By Emmanuel Oloniruha  Freetown   –    The Sierra Leone National Electoral Commission(NEC) has promised to produce and announce elections results that are credible . The NEC Chairman Mohamed Conteh, gave the pledge on Wednesday at the commission’s headquarter in Freetown, while updating newsmen on the country’s general elections, which collation of results has started. He urged Sierra Leoneans to be patient with the commission to come out with credible result that would be announced by him. “NEC is committed to producing reports that are accurate. This means that results may require several days to tally. Please let us be patient. ““The only true results and the ones that have been satisfied are the ones that I will announce on behalf of the electoral commission. “Regardless of our individual trending let us stand together stand together in our commitment to peace. Let Sierra Leone, our country be known as a peaceful democratic nation. ‘’ Conteh, disclosed that there was a case of misbehaviour by one of the commission’s polling officers in Western Area Rural.
“ “This is being investigated by the NEC district office and the Sierra Leone Police, and will be addressed accordingly. ‘’ He commended the high turnout of voters to make their choices about the future of the country and the region. He also commended the citizens for their commitment to peace and participation in the electoral process especially the People Living with Disability.
“ “As a nation, we have demonstrated our commitment to peace.
“ We are proud to have witnessed the participation of men and women, young and old voters living with disabilities and those who have never voted before.
“ “Every Voter that was in the queue had voted and every polling stations had closed by 5.30 this evening. Counting is now on-going.
“ “We expect the first turn of symptom envelop to arrive at our regional service centres by midnight.’’ He commended the support given to the commission by the Sierra Leone government, the media, Civil Society Organisations and the international development partners, especially the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Earlier in a ststement Conteh said the commission had received letters of withdrawal from the election from five candidates. The candidates were Isata Turay, an Independent candidate for local council election Ward 211, Kamba District and Mr Mohamed Kaloko, Bombali District. Others were Albert Tarawallie, Moghengbeh Anthony and David Gbla, independent candidates for parliamentary election in constituency 050; Constituency 86, Bio District; and Western Rural District respectively.