By Collins Yakubu-Hammer  Abuja   –      Four out of the 11 remaining housemates at the ongoing Big Brother Naija reality TV show “Double Wahala” on Monday have been put up for possible eviction on Sunday. The four housemates for possible eviction got the highest numbers of nominations. They are Cee-C who got six nominations, Teddy and Bambam got four each and Nina got three. However, two out of the four housemates would kiss the show goodbye when final rounds of voting are concluded and the would be ex-housemates announced on Sunday. The nomination season went as thus: Alex nominated Teddy and Bambam, Lolu nominated Miracle and Nina, Miracle nominated Cee-C and Lolu and Bambam nominated Cee-C and Nina. More so, Anto who had not spent up to 17 hours in the house nominated Cee-C and Bambam, Rico Swavey nominated Cee-C and Teddy and Teddy nominated Miracle and Nina. Similarly, while Khloe who got a second chance to play in the game nominated Cee-C and Alex, Tobi the current head of house nominated Bambam and Teddy and Nina nominated Lolu and and Cee-C. After the nomination, Big Brother in his usual manner called out the four nominees to stand and informed them of the nomination and possible eviction. A little drama ensued as some of the nominees misunderstood Biggie’s comment thinking all the housemates were for possible eviction. In realisation of the confusion about the possible eviction, Biggie said “just for clarity, the four housemates are for eviction this week except the rest”. Meanwhile, big brother asked Tobi, the head of house to read the instructions on the chance cards. The instructions had to do with immunity, replacement, save and nomination. The anchor of the show, Ebuka said he was going to attend the house’ Saturday night party with a special guest. “I will be coming to the Saturday night party this week with a special guest. I will come into the house around 10p.m and 30 minutes later the special guest will enter.” With the nomination of the four housemates, the drama continues in the house as the Khloe and Anto begin to live once again as housemates who have been given a second chance. At the end of the show, the winner will go home with the grand prize of N45 million and a brand new SUV.