By Talatu Maiwada Abuja –   AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF), an NGO, says it has educated and empowered no fewer than 250 women on reproductive health, and HIV and AIDS services.
Mr Steve Aborisade, Advocacy and Marketing Manager, AHF Nigeria, disclosed this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abuja.
It said the empowerment initiative was delivered in collaboration with the Benue Government as part of activities to celebrate the 2018 International Women’s Day.
“AHF in collaboration with Benue State Government, hosted over 250 women in Markurdi, Benue State, with a platform to aggregate problems facing women and proffer lasting solutions to them.
“Gathered were different women support groups from Agan, Daudu, Gbajimba, Makurdi, Awo Apilla and other areas of the state.
“Challenges of health inequalities that women suffered in Benue state especially as related to HIV and AIDS services were addressed as well as how women could access quality healthcare,’’ he said.
Aborisade said Mrs Eunice Ortom, wife of Benue governor, commended AHF on its laudable programmes for women in the state.
Mrs Ortom, who was represented by Mr Daniel Gbabo, Senior Special Assistant on Admin and ICT, pledged to support and prioritise the agenda for the development of women in Benue.
She said challenges such as issues of violence, poverty, lack of potable clean water, rising cases of insecurity which had prevented the people of the state from farming, among others, would be addressed.
Dr Gideon Dura, the Executive Secretary, Benue State AIDS Control Agency (BENSACA), advised men on the need to be more responsible to women.
Dura said that most women were infected by their spouses and partners with women bearing the brunt of the disease more, adding that the vulnerability of women as second class citizens should be addressed.
Mrs Grace Wende, former Programme Director, Benue State AIDS Control Agency (BENSACA), urged the state government to ensure that available laws in the state are implemented and effective to work for women.
She however encouraged women to believe in themselves, speak out and stand strong for their rights.
Dr Temitope Fadiya, representative of UNAIDS, in his remarks said the rights of women was already protected in the constitution, while urging the government to further protect their rights.
Highlight of the programme was the distribution of over 200 buckets with water treatment to indigent women by AHF.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that AHF is the largest global AIDS organisation currently providing medical care and services to over 872,000 clients in 39 countries.
AHF Nigeria has been operating in the country since 2011 and has its presence in six states. (NAN)