By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja （Sundiata Post）- All Progressives Congress leaders in the South-South have commended the National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun’s good organizational management skill.  They praised Oyegun for promoting the president’s agenda, revitalizing the country’s democracy through internal democracy and encouraging progressives to look to the beliefs they share.  However, the leaders also lambasted the suspended deputy national publicity secretary of the party, Comrade Timi Frank, for using the ruling party as a vehicle for self-promotion. Timi Frank The leaders who described his comment on the extension of the tenure of Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC) for another 12 months as shitty and ugly, reminded that the tenure extension did not violate the provisions of the constitution, the Electoral Act and the constitution of the party.”  The leaders who described Oyegun as a descent man, disclosed this in a statement in Port-Harcourt signed by the Chairman, South-South Front, Chief John Harry.  The leaders praised the ruling party for reaching agreement and retaining a strong class of leaders.  According to them, “Chief John Odigie-Oyegun is good in terms of organizational management” the leaders said. “The era of consensus politics is here. The tenure extension is democratic. APC is on the right side of history.” Oyegun also earned unvarnished praise from the leaders for the efficiency of the Government and the fundamental direction of its policy. The leaders called the suspended deputy national publicity secretary a disgrace to the South-South. “The ruling party detests discrimination. Frank’s suggestion on the way forward for the ruling party is a recipe for chaos. He is only interested in fragmentation and conflict” the leaders said. They urged APC members to project the image of the party in its true perspective to counter the negative picture being presented by Okere Uzochukwu, Timi Frank and others. “PDP is in the worst shape. PDP ratings have continued to tumble since 2015. The party has become toxic, failing to connect with the people. It will be wiped out in 2019” the leaders said. Happy with the performance of the ruling party, the leaders added“APC is a product already built and tested through elections.” 