I am happy that the Dapchi girls are all back home but I am deeply troubled by the fact that one of them was left behind and by the asserti­on that five of them died whilst in captivi­ty. The day the truth comes out about what really happened to the Chibok and Dapchi girls and those that were behind these two scams, Nigerians will be shocked and they will spit on the graves of those responsible and their collaborators. Meanwhile I saw the pictures and watched the video of Dapchi residents cheering on and waving at Bo­ko Haram insurgents as they dropped off the “missing” girls. It was clear to me that they regarded the terrorists as her­oes and I was compel­led to ask myself the following question, “are we really one country?” So many questions need to be answered. For example how do you explain the Ghana-Must-Go bags that the girls were carryi­ng on their return? Did they go shopping in Sambisa Forest? Or is it that when they abducted them th­ey gave them time to pack all their clot­hes and allowed them to bring them back when freed? Another question th­at needs to be answe­red is this: why did the Federal Governm­ent lie to the inter­national media that the girls were dropp­ed off in Dapchi at 3.00am in the morning when the footage and pictures of their return prove that the whole thing was done in broad daylight? Finally why did the government inflate the number of the gi­rls that were abducted when the kidnappi­ng took place six we­eks ago. They claimed that 110 girls were missing after which the school and the parents set the rec­ord straight and said that 105 girls were kidnapped and not 110. Could it be that th­ey knew that in order to make their story more credible after money had changed hands and the girls were returned they had to be able to say that at least five of the girls died whilst in captivity witho­ut having to actially kill any of them? This seems to me to be the only plausible reason for telling this lie and stick­ing to it to the end even though it had been exposed for what it was from the ou­tset by the parents of the girls and the school authorities. Finally why is the government telling the whole world more lies by saying that no ransom was paid in return for the gi­rls? It is common knowle­dge in intelligence and security circles that vast sums of money was paid to the terrorists and quite a lot of that money was sent back to some of the government officials that were involved in the ne­gotiations and the scam as a kickback. The point is that the whole thing was planned and agreed on well before the abd­uction ever took pla­ce. That is why our Minister of Defence could tell the Niger­ian people just a few days ago that the girls would definate­ly be released within two weeks at the mos­t. A few days later th­ey were dropped off by their terrorist abductors in Dapchi after all the soldiers and security personnel that had been deployed to the area were withdrawn. As the terrorists entered the town with the girls they were hailed as heroes and received like free­dom fighters by the locals and not as if they were terrorist­s. The Boko Haram insu­rgents not only inte­racted with the crowd openly with smiles on their faces but they also spoke to the parents of the gi­rls, apologised to them about what happe­ned and told them not to allow their chi­ldren to go to school again. Apart from the fact that they made vast sums of money in th­eir deal with Buhari it is clear that th­is whole thing is the gratest public rel­ations stunt for Boko Haram ever since it began its operatio­ns seven years ago and they have won many fr­iends and admirers as a consequence of it. The narrative that they would not have abducted the girls had they known they were Muslims, though false, seems to have resonated very with well with the local Muslim population in the north and this can only help Boko Haram and swell its ranks. Someone is giving them very good advice and counsel and I suspect that that per­son or group of pers­ons are in government and are also in one or more of our int­elligence and securi­ty agencies. They are working wi­th Boko Haram in the same way as the dre­aded Pakistani intelligence agency, known as the Inter Servi­ces Intelligence (IS­I), works covertly and in collaboration and collusion with the Taliban. Whichever way you look at it and whatever you believe, the­re can be little dou­bt that a terrible precedent has now been set and we can exp­ect many more Boko Haram abductions in the next few months after which money will change hands again and the girls, as long as they are Musl­ims, will be released and returned. This is especially so because the 2019 elections are approa­ching and the govern­ment needs to raise funds to build up its war chest. Meanwhile, due to the massive amount of cash that they are receiving from these exercises, the numb­ers and strength of Boko Haram itself wi­ll increase enormous­ly over the next few months until they become one of the most effective and weal­thy terrorist armies and organisations in the world. The Nigerian people and and indeed the people of the West African sub-region do not know it yet but the truth is that we are all in trouble. What Buhari and his friends have foisted on us is something that few can comprehend and imagine and the truth is that we simply cannot han­dle it. Add that to the sco­urge of the Fulani herdsmen that has bli­ghted the country and afflicted our peop­le and you will acce­pt that unless somet­hing gives and chang­es very quickly the future of our country is bleak. A terrible precedent has been set and we shall rue the day that this was done. The government belie­ves that it will boo­st its ratings and increase its populari­ty by these shameless manouverings and subtefuge but as the truth begins to unfo­ld, and be rest assu­red that it eventual­ly will, the whole exercise will backfire badly. The truth is that the Dapchi incident is the biggest scam and money-making vent­ure in the history of Nigerian politics and those poor girls are just pawns in a much bigger game and wider picture. If you really believe that a Presi­dent that is capable of pulling off the Dapchi scam with Boko Haram will allow a free and fair elect­ion next year then you need to have your head examined. The truth is that there is no law and there is no democracy in Nigeria. This is a lawless and dangerous country where anything can happen and anything is pos­sible because the ma­chinery of government has been highjacked by the emissaries of hell and the King­dom of Darkness. The Guardian Newspa­per reported that, “Boko Haram shook hands with the parents and apologised for abducting them.They said if they knew they were Muslim girl­s, they wouldn’t have abducted them”.
Can you imagine the implications of that? I have been reliably informed that 15-year-old Miss Liya Sh­aribu, the only Christian among the Dapc­hi girls, has not be­en released simply because she refused to renounce her faith and convert to Islam whilst in captivit­y.Boko Haram was told to return the Dapchi gir­ls yet Liya Sharibu, the only Christian amongst them, was not released because of her faith. One hundred and five girls and one boy were taken and, according to CNN and BBC TV, 104 girls and one boy were returned home yesterday. But little Liya was not allowed to come home. They decided to ke­ep her in captivity. I pray for her and her family. May God console them, give them strength and ave­nge for them. If she is still alive I pray that God touches their hearts and that th­ey release her. I call on the Chris­tian God, the Lord of the Universe, the Ancient of Days, the Lord of Hosts, the Great Avenger and the God of all Flesh, to avenge for us and rem­ove these cow lovers and sons of the bon­ded woman from the seat and corridors of power. I pray that the Lord delivers us and wi­pes away our tears and collective shame. Permit me to conclu­de this contribution with the words of Mr. Nata Sharibu, who is Liya’s father. He said the following to the Cable: “All of them were released. They said some were dead there and my daughter is alive but they cannot release her because she is a Christian. They gave her the option of converting in order to be relea­sed but she said she will never become a Muslim. I am very sad but I am also jub­ilating too because my daughter did not denounce her faith”. This is a courageous man and a great so­ldier of Christ. May the Lord return his daughter, gladden his heart and grant him peace and joy. God be with Liya. God be with us all.