By Olabisi Akinbode Ibadan –  A gender-based NGO on Friday expressed happiness on how gender parity is yielding result after the Beijing conference across African countries.
Dr Boluwatife Lola-Dare, the Global President of “I WILL GIVE’’, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ibadan that some African countries have recorded “ significant progress in women’s inclusion and participation in politics’’.
However, Lola-Dare noted that many countries still lag behind.
“Women are completing primary education but very few go up the education ladder to complete secondary and tertiary education.
“In the work place women comprise only 15 per cent of membership of multi-national boards.
“In spite of having more women in the work force, they still remain largely in administrative positions, with a wide pay gap in the senior executive positions they occupy in corporations.
“According to the most recent report on gender parity gap, published by the World Economic Forum, it would take over two centuries (217 years) to bridge the gender gap, if we continue at the current pace.
“This is unacceptable and much more needs to be done,” Lola-Dare, also a Social Community Health Physician, said.
She said the shift in mindset is very important for progress and action, adding that average man sings his minutest victory as “awesome’’ and women on the other hand are known to play down their greatest exploits as simple and ordinary.
This ‘modesty’ has not helped to profile women as the success they are at home, work, play and society.
“Increasing exposure to education along with democracy, expanding availability of technology, improved access to financing, provides more opportunities to the African women to harness.
“The coverage by these remains inadequate and this is where more needs to be done.
“We need bolder progress to ensure that women access what global, regional and country policies provide them towards representation, participation, inclusion and access to both social and economic status.
“Women need concerted actions to take forward the modest achievements in this area and should press for progress in these areas,’’ she said.
In the area of politics for women, Lola-Dare said that politics in Nigeria is not for the faint hearted even amongst men.
“I stand in deepest admiration for those women of values in Nigerian politics, which, in spite of all odds stood up to be counted in this murky terrain.
“Quite frankly we should frown that our politics is driven by this volume of money such that it leaves merit and value behind’’, but noted that the experience is the same for both male and female.
“Money matters so much that only a minuscule value merit, commitment and vision in our political landscape.’’
Besides, Lola-Dare said that she did not consider women as the ‘endangered specie’ because there was no humanity and life without women.
According to her, the African culture in its original plans is based on a high level regard for women empowerment.
Lola-Dare said that in their tenets a man of both status and integrity was measured by the value he places on women in his life (mother, wife, sister, daughter etc) to provide for, empower and protect them.
“This in no way makes women the “weaker sex” but the respected and revered one. I am not aware of a culture or tradition, where domestic abuse or disrespect for women is celebrated.
“Women abuse is not our culture or African Heritage.
“Nigerian history is full of women who have distinguished themselves well beyond the kitchen and other duties.
“Our work on women is named after Queen Kambassa of the Bonny Kingdom, Nigeria – A queen well renowned for her positions on gender equality.
“There are many others including late Mrs Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, Margaret Ekpo, Hajiya Gambo Sawaba- all of whom were notable rights activists, and of course our older citizens, Prof. Bolanle Awe and Prof. Jadesola Akande,” she said.
According to Lola-Dare, the traditional rites of passage including various forms of genital mutilation affect both men and women and can be harmful to both.
She added that it was taking some time for women’s roles to fully evolve from their long standing role of home keeping and child rearing.
Lola-Dare urged women to prove their worth in this digital age by being ITC compliant in their vocation, adding that this would engender smooth electronic ecommerce, e-banking, e-health and others.
She advised women to be prepared, saying “only those who are prepared can identify and make the best of opportunities that present themselves in their lives daily”.
She urged all women to remain primed and show “actions, not words”.
NAN reports that the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) was founded in 1947 by the UN to focus on setting standards and formulating international conventions to change discriminatory legislation and foster global awareness of women’s issues.
Every March 23 was set aside by the UN Women unit to deliberate on issues affecting women globally. (NAN)