Dutse   –    Prince Uche Secondus, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Chairman claimed that the government of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has failed because it couldn’t fulfil its promises to the people. Secondus made this claim while addressing members of the PDP during his working tour to Dutse, capital of Jigawa on Monday. He said that the APC made a lot of promises to the people during the electioneering campaigns but it has failed to fulfil the promises. “APC said if they win, they will revive the economy, they will address the problem of insecurity and corruption” “Sen. Dino Maleye said before the floor of the house recently that in the 16 years of PDP government they collected a loan of only N6 trillion but APC government in just three years collected N11 trillion.” These figures, bandied by Melaye and Pastor Tunde Bakare have been discredited as wild guesses, by fact checkers. According to data provided by Debt Management Office, the Federal Government borrowed N6.76 trillion since June 2015. When state debts are added, what has been borrowed is N8.3 trillion — still significantly lower than the N11 trillion being touted. In contrast, the PDP in 16 years borrowed N9.25 trillion, higher than Bakare and Melaye’s claim. “Corruption has pervaded the APC government from the top to bottom, APC government is more corrupt than PDP’s own’, claimed Secondus. “There is insecurity in the country, you cannot sleep with your two eyes closed, there is poverty and hunger in all the houses in Nigeria, therefore APC is a government of deception” “I therefore urge us to come out en masse and vote for PDP so that we could fight hunger, poverty and the insecurity.” The PDP Chairman said that APC has come to divide the country while PDP is out to unite the country. “APC should therefore prepare to hand over to PDP as we also handed over to them” The Governor of Gombe State, Alhaji Hassan Dankwambo, who is nurturing a presidential ambition, said that since the PDP left government in Jigawa, he has not seen any changes under the present APC administration in the state. Dankwambo urged the people to support PDP, which he said would win the 2019 election, by the power of God. Alhaji Ahmed Makarfi, immediate Caretaker Chairman of the Party said the party has put all the the necessary machinery in place to wrest power from the APC. Alhaji Sule Lamido former governor of Jigawa charged the people to protect their votes on election day. The PDP National Chairman was accompanied on the tour by prominent Party stalwarts like former governor of Kano state Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, former Senate House Leader Alhaji Abdul Ningi, Amb. Aminu Wali, first civilian governor of Jigawa, Alh Ali Sa’ad Birninkudu, former Governor Kaduna, Alhaji Ahmad Muhammad, who was the immediate past chairman of the PDP and many others