Abuja （Sundiata Post）-  Herdsmen have invaded Tse-Igbe in Nyiev Local Government Area of Guma Local Government Area of Benue State and killed a Catholic Catechist, Mr. Christopher Unenge. The herdsmen also ambushed and killed two brothers, Aondowase Uma and Ahanbee Uma, in the same local government. The assailants reportedly torched several houses. The Tuesday killing came barely 24 hours after President Muhammadu Buhari visited state to commiserate with the government and people over herdsmen’s murder of 73 people and other killings in the state. This brings to three the number of people killed shortly after President Buhari left the state on Monday. This came as five people, among them two security agents, were killed yesterday at Dong village in Jos North Local Government Area and Rafiki neighboring communities in Miango District of Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State. Guma is the home local government of Governor Samuel Ortom where the Exercise Cat Race launched by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai, has its operational headquarters. The catechist, who worshiped at the Roman Catholic Mission (RCM) Church, Orogbo in Guma, was said to be going to attend a morning mass on Tuesday with his in-law identified as Ayem Mbakuughur when he ran into the herders. The herdsmen opened fire and killed Unenge instantly while Mbakuughur escaped. Aondowase and Ahanbee were said to be returning from Yelewata Market on a motorcycle about 8pm when they were ambushed and killed. The herders also burnt their motorcycle. Many people were said to have been injured in the attack while four others were missing as at the time of filing this report. A survivor, Orihyev Nyaga, who was shot in his left hand, said he was returning from the market on his motorcycle when he ran into a road block mounted by the herdsmen. When contacted, the Director of Communications, Catholic Diocese of Makurdi, Reverend Father Moses Iorapuu, confirmed the killing of the catechist, but refused to give details. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Moses Yamu, also confirmed the killing of the two brothers. Yamu, however, said he was yet to obtain details and promised to release it to journalists as soon as he got full details of the killings. Meanwhile, in the Plateau State incident, the two security agents were reportedly killed while trying to repel the attackers who were well armed with sophisticated weapons. The attack occurred about 7am. The suspected Fulani herdsmen went on the rampage and burnt down houses belonging to Irigwe settlement in Dusa Kura, a few meters away from 3rd Division, Rukuba Barracks and also burnt down a Church of Christ in Nations (COCIN) at Dong as well as injured several others. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Tyopev Mathias, said the command was aware of the incident. He said urgent steps had been taken to bring the situation under control. Seven persons have been arrested in connection with yesterday’s attack. Media Officer of the Operation Save Haven, Captain Umar Adams, disclosed the arrests of the seven persons. (News Express) •Sourced from New Telegraph. Source News Express