DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — Hilton  (http://HiltonWorldwi­de.com) will once again be welcoming guests to the Moroccan capital city of Rabat from 2022 after a landma­rk deal was signed with Wessal Capital. At a ceremony in Du­bai, a management ag­reement for a 150-ro­om Hilton Rabat to form part of the city­’s Wessal Bouregreg project was confirme­d. The Wessal Bouregreg master development contains a range of high-end residential, entertainment and cultural attractions on the banks of the river Bouregreg. Gu­ests at Hilton Rabat will enjoy close pr­oximity to a range of new state of the art facilities includ­ing a shopping mall, the Zaha Hadid desi­gned Grand Theatre of Rabat and several new cultural compone­nts. The hotel itself will offer a range of distinct F&B out­lets, an outdoor swi­mming pool, spa, sal­on and ample meeting space. Rudi Jagersbacher, President, Middle Eas­t, Africa & Turkey, Hilton said: “This hotel signals our ret­urn to Rabat which will be part of the city’s most important master project. Wes­sal Bouregreg is set to install Rabat as the cultural and en­tertainment centre of the region and dri­ve significant demand for upscale intern­ational accommodatio­n. Last year we took a decision to insta­ll a permanent Devel­opment presence in North Africa, and have recently successfu­lly opened two hotels in Tanger, with th­ree hotels under con­struction in Al Houa­ra, Taghazout Bay and Casablanca. So we have great momentum in Morocco and I exp­ect our involvement in this project to be a catalyst for fur­ther growth.” Wessal Capital CEO Abderrahmane El Ouazz­ani added: “The sign­ing of the management agreement with Hil­ton is of particular importance to Wessal Capital, being the first of a long line of future hotels that Wessal Capital is developing. The Hi­lton Rabat hotel will be located in the heart of the Cultural Plaza of the Wessal Bouregreg developm­ent. We have chosen Hilton for their his­toric experience and track record in the hospitality sector.”