By Yunus Yusuf Lagos –   The Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN) is to lead Nigeria’s delegation to the 2018 Offshore Technology Conference to discuss cost-reduction techniques and maintenance of high standards in Nigerian oil and gas industry. Mr Ranti Omole, the association’s Publicity Secretary, said in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos that the conference would hold from April 30 to May 3 in Houston, Texas, U.S. According to Omole, the conference will also discuss how to improve safety and reliability. Omole said that PETAN was expected to consolidate achievements it recorded in driving partnership of indigenous oil and gas companies with their international counterparts. He noted that the annual conference was the premier gathering of professionals and opinion leaders in the global oil and gas industry.
The official added that the conference provided excellent opportunities for promotion of Nigeria’s potential. According to Omole, the conference provides a unique platform for close interactions with leading international and major Nigerian oil service companies, indigenous oil companies, industry executives, government policy makers and political leaders to share ideas on improving the Nigerian oil and gas industry. “PETAN member companies and many other indigenous oil service companies will be part of a robust contingent to showcase the dynamism and potential of Nigeria’s petroleum industry. “About 3,500 professionals and industry leaders from Nigeria and beyond will attend this year’s event,’’ he said.
According to him, Dr Maikanti Baru, the Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), will declare the Nigerian pavilion open while international oil companies and major stakeholders in the industry will also be in attendance.
On the 2017 conference, he quoted PETAN’s President, Mr Bank-Anthony Okoroafor, as saying that it created opportunities for people to meet and interact with Nigerian players in the sector. According to him, PETAN is committed to promoting and developing the oil and gas industry in Nigeria through conferences, seminars and workshops.
The official said that PETAN would continue to create opportunities for Nigerian oil and gas companies to develop in a highly competitive environment. “This is why PETAN is taking this extra step to bring Nigerian companies to exhibit and make new business negotiations.’’
The News Agency of Nigeria NAN reports that the conference founded in 1969 now annually attracts over 170,000 visitors and 4,700 exhibitors from around the world. (NAN)