By Perpetua Onuegbu Abuja –  Mr Bisi Adegbuyi, Postmaster-General of the Federation, Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), has said that the newly-inaugurated board of the agency is to ensure effective corporate governance of the organisation. Adegbuyi said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja at the sideline of the inauguration of the Governing Board of the organisation. According to him, the board will play a complementary role for the organisation to achieve its goals of effective service delivery to its teeming customers and revenue generation for the government. “Corporate governance is sin-qua non to effective service delivery and also you have to form policies and general framework of where you are going because we are reforming and repositiong NIPOST. “For an organisation like NIPOST that belongs to an international organisation like the Universal Postal Union, we must take decisions expeditiously and in businesslike manner. “ We cannot afford to be left behind in what other postal organisations all over the world are doing, that is why the inauguration of the board is coming at the right time so that we hit the ground rolling to leverage on the opportunities we have. Adegbuyi said NIPOST was undergoing a restructuring and modernisation process aimed at a thriving market-driven entrepreneurial conglomerate focusing on innovation. He said the board was expected to amend all existing Postal Services laws, enact the Postal Reform law, enhance revenue generation, align work performance and support Federal Government in reducing unemployment. He said that the reform process would rejuvenate staff competences and skills as well as develop sustainable partnerships. NAN reports that the board is made up of seven members, with the Postmaster-General serving as the Secretary and the Chairperson, Memuna Yahaya. Earlier, while inaugurating the board, Mr Adebayo Shittu, Minister of Communications, called on members of board to take their assignment with utmost responsibility and achieve the set goals of the Federal Government to reform NIPOST. (NAN)