(Sundiata Post) — Rotary Club of Ikoyi under its Basic Life Support training programme recently extended its known humanitarian service to the Nigerian Police medical personnel with a training scheme for the personnel of the Police Hospital Falomo, on the delivery of the standard medical emergency support to patients. The hospital’s care-giver role with a far range of impact attracted the attention of the Club apart from being within its sphere of activities, President of the Club, Rotarian Isichei Osamgbi said. Speaking at the event on at the flag off of the event, Rotarian Osamgbi said the club chose the training programme to impact the lives of many Nigerians through its Basic Life Support because “serving and sacrificing for the betterment of humanity starts from doing things no matter how little” He said; “As Rotarians our belief is that if we cannot do great things to support humanity, we can do small things and in doing so, we will surely make a difference. “ In his remarks, the Basic Life Support (BLS) Project Coordinator, Past President Charles Okonkwo, said the Club will always partner with the Hospital to train staffs, personnel and carry out more projects to help upgrade the standard for the betterment of the Nigeria Police Force and its community. “Rotarians will not cease to support humanity. We will constantly seek to touch and impact people’s lives. That is why Rotary Club of Ikoyi has applied so much personal goodwill in engaging philanthropists, corporate organisation to pool resources together to provide assistance and support to the needy in its environs.”, he said. The Deputy Force Medical Officer, Police Hospital Falomo, Commissioner of Police, Obembe Modupe expressed gratitude to the Club for constantly choosing the hospital out of many to carry out wonderful projects, saying that the Basic Life Support (BLS) Training programme will definitely touch lives and equip the trainees with the requisite knowledge to excel in their profession. On his part, Dr. Hassan Adelakeen the Instructor from the American Heart Foundation Who facilitated the session noted that the training comes with its full international certification of its organization and will well equip the trainees with the additional requisite knowledge and skills to deliver excellent medical services to the needy in the society. The Basic Life Support (BLS) training is one the Rotary Club of Ikoyi’s major project geared towards touching lives in its community directly. The project is supported by the Rotary District 9110 Grant and has been hailed by the District Governor, Dr. Wale Ogunbadejo as being of immerse benefit to the society as a major life saver Trainees carrying out the Basic Life Support training organised by the Rotary Club of Ikoyi at the Police Hospital, Falomo, Lagos recently