By Nse Anthonty-Uko (Sundiata Post) — Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are critical to the development of any economy as they possess great potentials for employment generation, improvement of local technology, output diversification, development of indigenous entrepreneurship and forward integration with large-scale industries. In Nigeria, there has been gross under performance of the SMEs sub-sector and this has undermined its contribution to economic growth and development. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in the FSS 2020 SME Sector Report, 2007 grouped the key issues affecting the SMEs Nigeria into four namely: unfriendly business environment, poor funding, low managerial skills and lack of access to modern technology.
Among these, shortage of finance occupies a very central position. Globally, commercial banks which remain the biggest source of funds to SMEs have in most cases, shied way because of the perceived risks and uncertainties.  In Nigeria, the fragile economic environment and absence of requisite infrastructure has rendered SME practice costly and inefficient, thereby worsening their credit competitiveness. While shortage of finance remains a major issue for SMEs, a bigger problem however, seem to be lack of information about the limited funding sources that are available. In this series, we plan to explore the different sources of low-interest funding still open to SMEs in the current year 2018.
All over the world, the Government has been the major source for investment funding to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) through its development finance institutions. The Federal Government of Nigeria has also a number of intervention policies, designed to make it easy for small and medium sized businesses in Nigeria to obtain business finances in the form of grants and small-interest loans.
Examples of such government initiatives include the Federal Government YouWin Connect program, the SMEDAN Loans projects, and the YES-Programme of the Nigerian Bank of Industry (BOI), and The Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) among others. Therefore, some of the government finance institutions serving in this capacity includes: the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Bank of Industry (BOI), Nigeria Agricultural Cooperative Rural Development Bank (NACRDB), and so on. Other multinational government institutions aimed to make investment funding available to those that need them also include the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank), the African Development Bank (ADB), and many other government and private finance institutions and foundations. As a business owner or entrepreneur who is seeking to raise capital for the business, below are some government sources of funding for Nigerian small and medium enterprises that may benefit your business. 1. The BOI Youth Entrepreneurship Support (YES-Programme)
The Youth Entrepreneurship Support Programme (YES) is the enterprises empowerment initiative of the Nigerian Bank of Industry (BOI).
The programme provides the young aspiring Nigerian entrepreneurs the opportunity to access funds for the actualisation of their business ideas, expansion, as well as the modernization of their existing businesses.
One of the benefits of the YES-Program in Nigeria is its real business training courses. It also offers small business loans.
So young Nigerians now have an opportunity to develop their business ideas with the YES- Programme. How the Youth Entrepreneurship Support (YES) Programme Works
The interested candidates must be of ages 18 – 35 years with a minimum educational qualification of OND to access this opportunities.
They must also have been trained under the BOI Entrepreneurship Capacity Building Programme (as stipulated in the Training Programme Framework).
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members that have gone through the NYSC’s Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme (SAED) are also legible. Eligibility and application process
Step 1 – To be eligible for the Competition you must satisfy the following criteria:
1. The applicant must be a Nigerian.
2. Must have a viable business idea within the 40 identified clusters that is operated, or will operate in Nigeria.
3. Must be within the age limits of 18 and 35. (proof of identity: International passport/Drivers License/National ID/Voters card required).
4. Must possess a minimum educational qualification of Ordinary National Diploma (OND).
5. Applicant must be able to carry out the application process online. Step 2 – Register
Click here to register if you have not already done so
You will receive a confirmation email from YES Programme with all the details you will need to log in. Step 3 – Complete Application
Once you have successfully registered, log in and click the “Start Application” button on the Start Application Tab on this page. To return to your application, click the “save and continue” button and come back to it at any time. Once you are done with your application, click on the “Submit” button at the end of the form to send it to us. You can submit only ONE application per “application cycle” (typically 3-4 months).
Step 4 – Keep Informed
After the closing date you will be notified if you have been shortlisted for the next stage of the competition. Constantly check the YES Programme homepage for regular updates
For more about the YES scheme: Visit http://www.boi.ng/yes/ 2. The SMEDAN MSMEs Development Programmes 
The term – SMEDAN stands for the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria.
SMEDAN is a pioneer institution for the sustainable development of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigeria.
The scheme is made of commercial banks, industries and MSME funds provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria. How the SMEDAN MSMEs Development Programs Works
The Agency has recently unveiled a Credit Information Portal to facilitate easier access to funding for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in Nigeria.
The Portal provides an information pool that will assist Nigerian entrepreneurs make informed decisions in getting loans and credits from financial institutions within their locations.
This initiative was part of the agency’s efforts to tackle the challenges confronting the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector in the country.
Find out more on how the programs and projects of the SMEDAN can help your business. Visit: https://www.smedan.gov.ng/ To be continued…