By Kabir Muhammad Abuja –  The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has threatened to revoke all undeveloped plots in the FCT, especially those within layouts where infrastructure has been provided. The Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC) Coordinator, Umar Shuaibu, issued the warning during clearing of the Abuja airport road corridor on Thursday in Abuja. He advised owners of plots on both sides of the road to choose between either developing their plots or having them revoked by the Administration. According to him, we are hereby, once again, sending a strong message to owners of plots of land in Abuja, especially in places where infrastructure have been provided. “They should come out and develop their property, because failure to do so will have those plots revoked by the administration. “It is their responsibility to clear all dirt in and around their plots. “We are not the ones to do it for them. All property developers who are given allocations across the territory should also develop them as a matter of urgency,’’ he ordered. Shuaibu said if the owners cannot develop their plots, it means they do not have capacity to do so, “so we will go ahead and revoke those plots and allocate them to those who are willing and able to develop them.’’ The coordinator said the administration will not continue to waste resources meant for other equally important ventures on cleaning of some of the places for the plots owners. He said the exercise was part of restoring the beauty of the Airport road, similar to what it used to be before the rehabilitation and expansion to the current 10-lane expressway. Shuaibu said whatever the administration will do to make the important road beautiful, they will do it. “The Minister is very concerned that we keep this expressway beautiful, and that is exactly what we are going to do and will continue to do. “It is not just this road, it is a major gateway into the city, and we do not want it to be an eyesore for both our visitors and residents. “We are making sure that the entire city is kept clean at all times.” he said. The coordinator said it is AMMC’s task to clean up both sides of the road from the city gate up to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, and also to maintain its cleanliness.
o
According to him, we will do a pin down, where security personnel will be stationed around for surveillance, preventing the return of dirt to these places. Shuaibu also stressed the possibility of planting trees and flowers on both sides of the expressway, as the corridors were being cleared. The coordinator assured residents that in the cleaning process, bushes would be cleared, grounds level, illegal car wash spots, mechanic workshops, abandoned cars and bad tires will be removed.(NAN)