By Friday Idachaba Lokoja –   A group, `New Nigeria Nationalists’ walking from Lagos to Abuja, has called on Nigerians to be patriotic and re-channel their energies into nation-building. Mr Yinka Quadri, Coordinator of the group, made the call while addressing newsmen in Lokoja on Friday. It was on the sideline of the group’s 45-day self-imposed “New Nigeria Walk” from Lagos to Abuja. Quadri said that contrary to some perceptions and accepted notions, the nation still had hope as some Nigerians were still very much concerned and committed to the rebirth the country desperately needed. He said that the country had witnessed some lapses in the last 58 years and there was therefore, need to do something about it to advance the country. Quadri talked about the importance of the walk which started on Jan. 29, 2018, from TBS, Lagos, with a 25-member team and eight star trekkers. According to him, the walk is just the starting point of a chain that has been designed for the purpose of transforming Nigeria. “It is also meant to be used to show solidarity with Nigerians both in the public and private sectors that they are not forgotten and that indeed, Nigeria shall be great eventually. “Of course, we are few but those who have changed societies, countries and nations were never a huge crowd. “It’s just a few committed people who believe in the vision and the possibility of a new nation. Also speaking, the Lead Walker of the group, Mr Sumbo Ojomo, said Nigerians had got to the point where every well-meaning person has to channel his energy into nation-building. “We should be ready to give whatever it takes to put the nation and the future of our children first, ’’ she said. Mr Lanre Fadahunsi, one of the trekkers, said the group of New Nigeria Nationalists had no god-father anywhere but a Second Force between the old and the new to invoke a national rebirth. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the group continued with the walk after addressing newsmen. The group intends to end the walk at the National Assembly, Abuja, on the 45th day. (NAN) 