By Edeki Igafe  Warri    –      Friends of the Creator Foundation (FCF), has called for legislation to protect the intellectual property rights of actors and actresses in the entertainment industry in Nigeria. Dr. Ogaga Ifowodo, Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), of the intellectual property rights protection group, made the call in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Warri. Ifowodo said that such a legislation would pave the way for stakeholders in the industry to reap the fruits of their labour. He noted that it had become necessary to protect intellectual property rights because of the immense contribution of the entertainment industry to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “As Nigeria’s entertainment industry continues to contribute substantially to the GDP and national image, it is important that intellectual property rights of actors be protected so that they can enjoy the fruit of their labour,” Ifowodo said. NAN recalled that FCF, established in 2017, was recently honoured with the “Best Intellectual Property and Creativity Foundation of the Year”. The award was given to the foundation by the Prestige Anchor International in partnership with Law Students Bar Association, University of Benin (UNIBEN) Chapter. Mr Nathaniel Adebayo, leader of the Prestige Anchor International, had said that FCF was given the award because of its ability to break even in the field of creativity and innovation in less than two years of its existence. Ifowodo who was represented at the award ceremony by the FCF scribe, Mr Rockson Igelige had said the recognition would further energised the foundation in delivering on its mandate. “We are particularly happy to note that this award is given by Law students who are future advocates and defenders of intellectual property rights in Nigeria. ” We thank the IPL Society of UNIBEN for the honour and look forward to collaborating with them for the goal of advancing awareness by consumers, private and corporate, of intellectual property rights and obligations,” he said. He reiterated the commitment of the foundation to promoting respect for copyright, patent, trademark and ancillary rights.