By Oluwabukola Akanni  Ibadan   –      The Oyo State Government on Wednesday re-inaugurated the State Coordinating Committee on Vigilante Activities after a three-year break. Mrs Atinuke Osunkoya, the Commissioner for Women Affairs, Community Development, Social Welfare and Poverty Alleviation, said at a meeting that all stakeholders must abide by the aims and objectives of the body. According to her, the committee was re-inaugurated to sustain the existing peace that has been achieved in local communities within the state. Osunkoya, who called for more women and youth engagement and inclusion in safeguarding peace, said that women were critical to peacebuilding in local communities. According to her, the vigilance group was established to complement the efforts of security agencies in reducing the rate of social vices in local communities. “Vigilante groups were established in all local government areas of the state to complement the efforts law enforcement agencies such as the Nigeria Police in order to reduce crimes such as burglary, vandalism, drug abuse and addiction, arson, kidnapping and other vices. “In order to achieve these goals, it is important to promote women’s engagement and inclusion in safeguarding the peace and security of our local communities. “The aim of the coordinating committee is to collect grassroots security reports and disseminate such to the relevant agencies for prompt action. “I want to commend the community leaders of Ibadan South-East and South West Local Government Areas for steps taken to pacify the youths in these areas when there was a threat to the security of lives and properties in October 2017. “It is my prayer that the Almighty God will continue to sustain the existing peace and tranquillity enjoyed in the state,” she said. “Our meeting today is crucial when we take into cognisance the gap that has been created due to the non-existence of a coordinating committee in the last three years. “We are to deliberate on how to sustain the existing peace in the state and I also urge us to be committed to harmonising our responsibility for maximum service delivery. “I want to urge us to be committed to this call to duty and make ourselves available as the need arises,” she said.