By Ariwodola Idowu  Ado Ekiti –   The Police Command in Ekiti on Monday said it had arrested two men, Oguntoyinbo Odunayo and Babatunde Akinola, in connection with the alleged killing of a twin, Kehinde Olomola in Igede Ekiti. The command also arrested eight suspected cultists, who it said had been terrorising Igede Ekiti, in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government Area of the state and Ado Ekiti in recent times. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that names of the suspected cultists were given as Babatunde Jimoh, Shittu Dayo, Tope Adeleye, Omowaye Rotimi, Akinola Ajisafe, Femi Felix, Adebayo Tope and Tope Oluwabusuyi. It also arrested a rape suspect and a student of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, Tolulope Bamgboye, who was picked up for raping a female victim. The Police Commissioner, Mr Bello Ahmed, told newsmen in Ado Ekiti that the murder suspects, Odunayo and Akinola, allegedly stabbed the victim in the neck. Ahmed, who briefed newsmen through the Public Relations Officer of the Command, DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, said the two were arrested after police got a distress call from Igede Ekiti about the murder incident that occurred on Aug. 28 at Ilamoye in Igede Ekiti. He said that Olomola died after he was rushed to the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido Ekiti, for treatment of a machete cut. “A team of police operatives upon investigation found one long axe with blood stain at the scene of the crime. “The two suspects, who had direct connection with the murder were immediately picked up and are being thoroughly grilled to be able to extract useful information from them,” he said. The commissioner said the suspects will be arraigned in court after the conclusion of investigation by detectives. He said that the suspected cultists, who were alleged to belong to Aye and Eye confraternities were arrested at Odo Igede on Aug. 29. He said all the suspects had confessed to membership of the secret societies and that the command was perfecting charges against them to serve as deterrent to others. Ahmed stated that the rape suspect, Bamgboye, was arrested in Oye Ekiti after threatening violence and forcefully had carnal knowledge of a victim, (names withheld) in the town. He said the suspect had confessed to the crime and would be prosecuted as soon as the police concluded investigation. “In our continued determination to fight crime and criminality in Ekiti, our operatives shall continue to clamp down on those trying to undermine the security of this peaceful state. “I want to enjoin all Ekiti citizens to be security conscious, vigilant, and report any untoward incident or happening observed in their locality to the nearest police station or call the control room number 08062335577,” he said.  (NAN)