By Idris Olukoya  Lagos   –     The Cross River State Government says it will use the 2018 theme: Africanism to tell the African story in a positive way to Africans and the rest of the world. Mr Gabe Onah, the Chairman, Carnival Calabar Commission, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Thursday. NAN reports that Africanism is the promotion of African beliefs, culture and tradition among Africans and the international community. Onah said that the annual carnival had gained international recognition, hence, it had become a medium to showcase the rich cultures and traditions of Africans to the rest of the world. He said that for the carnival to live up to its bidding of a fun-filled carnival for both local and foreign tourists, the organisers had begun their planning. He said this included plans to upgrade the necessary infrastructure to make the city befitting for visitors. NAN reports that Calabar Carnival is an annual event that usually holds in December. It is always organised and managed by the Carnival Commission and the Carnival Bands’ Association. Onah said that the commission was also collaborating with and drawing technical manpower from international commissions from Notting Hill in London, Trinidad and Tobago and Rio in Brazil. “As part of technical manpower development for Carnival Calabar, training workshops and series of interactive sessions had been held over the years. “These workshops were for creative personnel involved in costume production, float construction, headgear production and other technical activities,’’ he said. Onah said that the ripple effects of Carnival Calabar on the indigenous culture in the past had been remarkable, particularly, in cultural dances, arts, local craft and musical performances. He said in years past, the carnival’s theme had addressed a particular development issue within the society with a global appeal. “ Carnival Calabar has been developed to become a medium through which societal shortcomings can be addressed through succinct interpretation of the themes as philosophy for play production,’’ he said. “It has always created room for organisational expression of thoughts toward improving the lots of the society,’’ he said.