By Friday Idachaba Lokoja –   The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) in Kogi says it has arrested seven suspects in connection for dealing and possessing 23.94 kilogrammes of substance suspected to be Indian hemp and psychotropic substances. Alhaji Idris Bello, Commander of the agency in Kogi who disclosed this in Lokoja while speaking with journalists on the arrest said the suspects were arrested in various locations in the state. Bello said two of the suspects were arrested on Okene Lokoja road by the NDLEA operatives, with 66 bottles of Codeine syrup and 40g of Rohypnol, adding concealing the substances in bottles and packaged in Indomie cartons inside a luxury bus and being conveyed from Enugu state to Abuja. He also said four other suspects were arrested in some flash points within Lokoja metropolis. Bello warned peddlers of hard drugs and psychotropic substances to stay away from the state, adding that the command was poised to ensure their arrest and prosecution. He urged residents of the state to always provide useful information that could help in ridding the state and the society of illegal drugs. According to him, most crimes are perpetrated under the influence of drugs , adding that once the use of illegal drugs is curtailed, the rate of crime in the society will reduce drastically. Bello stated that the suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigation into the cases is concluded. Speaking with newsmen on his alleged involvement in the deal, one of the suspects,name withheld, said that he took to to selling of Indian hemp because of hard time. The suspect , who claimed to have been in the illegal business for more than four months, was arrested with Indian hemp weighing 1.4kg and 50g pack of Tramadol capsules, diazpam and assorted spirit drinks. The 40-year-old suspect with a wife and two kids said he found it difficult to feed his family which left him with no other option than to sell hard drugs. “I have been in this business for over four months. Hardship led me into this. There is no job anywhere. He said he got inspiration from some company workers who developed interest in taking Indian hemp and Tramado  (NAN)