By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Lawmaker representing Kaduna Central Senatorial district at the National Assembly, Senator Shehu Sani has lambasted the Police over the raid of the residence of Ijaw leader and elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark. He made the statement in reaction to the raid carried out by the police at the premises of the vocal Ijaw leader. Shehu Sani who gave clue as to what can be found in the house of the Ijaw leader, however directed anyone looking for arms to go to Sambisa.  According to him, items like hat, walking stick and stock of books are stuffs that can be found in the house of the 91 years old man. The Comrade who disclosed this when he took to his twitter handle @ShehuSani said: “If you are looking for a Hat, a Walking stick and stock of Books go to Clark’s Castle; if you are looking for arms go to Sambisa”. Recall that the house of the former minister of information was on Tuesday raided by the police for alleged gun running. The search reportedly yielded no discovery of unauthorised arms or other illicit items. In a swift reaction to the raid, Inspector General of Police, Idris Ibrahim through a statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer,Jimoh Ibrahim, denied sending the security operatives to ransack the residence of the former Federal Commissioner of Information and South South leader, Chief Edwin Clark. He also ordered the detention of the four police personnel and the informant involved in the raid. Edwin Clark has received an apology from the police after the unauthorised raid on his home by officers. Police spokesperson Jimoh Moshood said Inspector-General Ibrahim Idris has sent a delegation of senior police officers to apologise to the elder statesman over the development. Mr Idris sent Joshak Habila, the deputy inspector-general in charge of operations, with some commissioners to apologise to Chief Clark at home. The officials apologised “on behalf of the Nigeria Police Force and the IGP for the misconducts of the said police personnel and the attendant embarrassment the search has caused on the elder statesman and his family,” police said. Mr Moshood said Chief Edwin Clark had accepted the apology, indicating that the chief’s earlier demand for an open apology from the police had been met. 