By Awayi Kuje Lafia –   Ahead of the 2019 general elections, Confidence Building Initiative International (COBII), an NGO, has embarked on sensitisation of electorate in Nasarawa State on the need to vote credible leaders.
Mr Illah Obadiah, the Executive Director of the organisation made this known on Saturday in Lafia while presenting the 2019 Pre-election Situation Analysis produced by the NGO.
Obadiah said COBII conducted the exercise to raise awareness of voters to elect leaders and representatives at all levels that would deliver dividends of democracy.
According to him, the NGO specialised in system strengthening through confidence building advocacy, biomedical services, research and care for the vulnerable population, among others.
“The objective of this presentation is to deepen understanding on predictors and how the electorate will likely vote in 2019 Gubernatorial Election in Nasarawa State.
“This is an opinion poll on how the Nasarawa citizens will vote their governor, Senators, House of Representative members among other elective positions,’’ he said.
Obadiah said the topical issues voters would like to see addressed by the candidates included electricity, agricultural needs, education, road, security, water supply and healthcare services.
The executive director therefore called on the electorate to vote candidates of proven integrity in the interest of development.
Mr Ifekandu Chike, the Programme Consultant of COBII, while presenting the situation report, said Quantitative Questionnaire with a Sample size of 1,800 were used.
“Study areas which we used include Lafia, Nasarawa, Obi, Karu, Keffi and Akwanga Local Government Areas of the state and the duration was from May 1 to June 30.
“Eligibility criteria ensures the people must be 18 and above and they must also have a Permanent Voter Card (PVCs) and resident in Nasarawa State.
“The summary output and the Opinion Poll results shows that 38 per cent of the voters in the state will vote based on political party while 44 per cent will not vote based on political party, and 18 per cent is indifferent.
“On whether the candidate’s religion counts, shows 33 per cent of the voters willing to vote based on religion, while 20 per cent will not based on religion, and 47 per cent remains undecided.
“Whether the candidate’s tribe will matter, 66 per cent of the opinion poll agrees, while 28 per cent disagreed and six per cent remains undecided,” he said.
Chike also said the opinion poll showed that social media and print media were the most preferred platform for political information.
The programme consultant further said electronic media, places of worship/town hall meetings as well as friends and family were veritable platforms for political information.  (NAN)