By Yusuf Yunus  Lagos   –       The management of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC), said the poor power supply in Ogun and its environs was due to a shortfall in allocation from the national grid. Mrs Angela Olanrewaju, Head, Branding and Corporate Communications of IBEDC, disclosed this on Wednesday. She said the company resorted to load-shedding due to the shortfall in the power allocated to the company in recent times. She also said the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) had limitation from the transmission station serving feeders at Idiroko on 33KV ( source 132/33kv T/S, Ota) and Lusada 33KV feeders (Source Agbara 132/33kv T/S, Agbara) in its Ota Business unit. According to her, the two feeders supply power to Owode, Idiroko, Atan-Ota, Iju and its environs. She said the Agbara 132/33KV Transmission station, with load requirement of 35MW, which feeds customers on Lusada 33KV network of IBEDC now gets12MW load allocation. Similarly, she said the Ota 132/33KV Transmission station that feeds Idiroko 33KV customers of IBEDC network now gets 9MW load allocation instead of 30MW. “IBEDC has embarked on energy sharing roster in order to ensure equitable power supply to all its esteemed and valued customers in the area. “This is as a result of the limited allocation. Though, customers on the main line enjoy better supply than those on isolators. “The difference is evident in the monthly billing through the NERC approved average cluster billing methodology of the company,” said Olarenwaju, in a statement. She said supply to IKEDC customers at the Lagos end of the boundary emanates from 11KV network within the control of IKEDC, which leads to flexibility and better supply around the axis. She said IBEDC was not resting on its oars, and that the company planned to construct 33KV/11KV 0.415 injection Substations to assume total control of the available energy and enhance supply. The IBEDC spokesperson said the protest by some Elerinko customers, challenging their high monthly bills, was because of the good supply enjoyed by them and the recent correct customer categorisation. He said the customers in the community were supplied electricity via Ijoko 33KV mainline with a daily average supply of 20-23 hours. She appealed for the understanding of customers, and that in spite of the shortfall in supply, IBEDC struggled to ensure uninterrupted power supply to its customers. “We hereby apologise for all inconveniences this irregular supply might have caused all our esteemed customers along the Owode Idiroko – Sango axis,’’ said Olarenwaju.