By Ihechinyere Chigemeri-Uwom Umuahia –  A former Kano State Governor, Sen. Rabiu Kwankwaso, has said that fairness and equity are important in promoting good governance and addressing the needs of Nigerians. Kwankwaso, a presidential hopeful under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said this on Monday after paying a courtesy call on Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia at Government House, Umuahia. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Kwankwaso was in the state to solicit the support of PDP stakeholders in the state toward his political ambition. According to him, lack of leaders with the required capacity often make governance to fall short in the delivery of adequate infrastructural development in the society. He said that the waste of resources was the biggest challenge in the achievement of socio-economic development of the country. Kwankwaso underscored the need to check the trend, especially in the civil service and in the award of contracts. He said the country required a leader with the capacity, minimum qualification and experience to understand the diversity of the nation. “This country needs somebody who understands the challenges of every ethnic and religious group and carry everyone along. “Somebody who has time and commitment to ensure that there is equity. “I believe if we have the right person, this country would be the right place for everyone.” The former Kano governor, however, stressed on the need for the nation’s constitution to be amended from time to time in order to reflect the needs of the people at any particular time. He added that attention should be given to restructuring as well as resource control, poverty eradication, unemployment, quality education, water supply and infrastructure, among others. According to him, every part of the country has its peculiar needs. He added that, as a democrat, he would be open to the needs of the people and address them appropriately. Responding, Ikpeazu said that recent developments in the country indicated that every politician understood the predicament of the people. He said that the nation required dynamic and pragmatic leaders who would enhance the transformation which would greatly improve the well-being of the people. The governor urged Kwankwaso to ensure that he remained focused on issues that would yield growth and development in the country. (NAN)