By Busayo Onijala   Lagos   –       Ex-BBNAIJA housemate, Bamike Adewumi, popularly called Bambam, caused a stir online for her choice of outfit to the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCAs) which held at Eko Hotels and Suites on Saturday. The actress and singer turned heads in a flamboyant green-feathered dress, which was designed by Houseofjahdara. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 2018 edition of the AMVCAs, the sixth edition, honoured film and TV talent across the continent. The AMVCAs were created to celebrate the contributions of African filmmakers, actors and technicians to the success of the continent’s film and television industry. Bambam’s couture dress appeared quite similar to what singer, Lady Gaga, wore to the premiere of her new movie, A Star is born. Houseofjahdara also designed the dresses worn by ex-beauty queen, Munachi Abi; singer, Waje; and actress, Eniola Badmus. However, it was a mixed grill of reactions from social media users, most of who agreed that Bambam’s outfit was uniquely different from those of other artistes. Some social media users have been condemning her since she posted photos of her look on her Instagram and Twitter profiles. Some took to Twitter to express their disappointment with very hilarious comments. @toyeenbsworld said, “There’s always a clown, a feathery clown at every awards ceremony’’. @prince_viiii said, “Why did Bambam come through looking like a feather duster?” @josh__ik, “Fine chick, fine chick. Bambam has turned to mother hen’’. Nonetheless, other fans applauded her for making such a bold fashion statement. @raychiebams said, “I knew Bambam would stand out. Her fashion sense is out of this world’’. @cynthiaclassichair said, “Your dress is absolutely splendid, different from other AMVCA dresses. It is not the regular dress you see on the red carpet’’. @thecinderella.k said, “The idea is to steal the show, and you did queen’’. The 29-year old, who let her dress do the talking, wore minimal makeup, a few accessories, and finished with strappy gold sandals. Her hair was done in a ponytail which allowed her gold earrings take center stage. NAN reports that there were more than 120 nominations for the 27 categories of the AMVCAs for artistes from all over Africa. There were attendees from Kenya, Malawi, South Africa, Ghana and Nigeria for the event, with the highlight of the show being the trailblazer of the year award, which went to another ex-BBNAIJA housemate, Bisola Aiyeola.