By Akeem Abas Ibadan –  The Alumni Association of Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology (OYSCATECH), Igboora, on Thursday called for a permanent solution to the lingering crisis rocking tertiary institutions owned by the state. This was contained in a statement jointly issued by its Chairman, Steering Committee, Mojeed Anifowose, and General Secretary, Dare Azeez. The association appealed to Gov. Abiola Ajimobi to evolve immediate and permanent solutions to ensure crisis-free academic activities in the institutions. “We have critically understudied the lingering problem in the institutions, particularly OYSCATECH, before coming up with this appeal. “ We believe that as much as your innovative tendency at making the institutions self-sustaining is greatly appreciated, its manifestation might remain in limbo unless certain executive decisions were painstakingly and expressly made,” it stated. It listed some areas that required urgent executive decisions as clearing of accumulated salary arrears, payment of 100 percent salary, provision of financial intervention and granting of timeline to the institution for self-sustainability. “Your Excellency, a survey conducted by our association revealed that current developments in state-owned tertiary institutions across the state have pitched thousands of affected students against the current administration. “We hope that the earlier the logjam is resolved, the better for us all. “ We strongly believe that the contents of this appeal will be considered with ‘ a third eye’ and taken with a pinch of salt,” it said. The association, however, “ appreciated the unprecedented, modern, pragmatic and innovative governance which the governor had conspicuously introduced to Oyo.’’ “We appreciate you on the recent upward review of subventions to tertiary institutions in the state. “It is our hope that the trend would continue with a trusted successor who hopefully would consolidate on the ground-breaking achievements recorded by your administration. “ Our association will always support your Excellency’s aspirations in this regard,” it said. (NAN)