By Emmanuel Oloniruha  Abuja –   The Democratic Peoples Party (DPP) has urged stakeholders in the electoral process to partner Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to tackle vote-buying in forthcoming Osun governorship election and 2019 general elections. National Chairman of the party, Mr Gershom Benson, made the call at the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the party on Saturday in Abuja. Benson said that vote-buying had become worrisome in Nigeria’s electoral system and must be tackled by all stakeholders to enable best candidate to emerge in an election. “The issue of vote-buying played a role in Edo, Ekiti and other recent elections. All stakeholders must come together to tackle it. “Somebody is buying and somebody is selling. INEC is not forcing anybody to buy or sell vote. “It is the electorate that is helping those who are buying by selling their votes; if nobody is selling nobody will buy.” Benson said that DPP, as a party friendly to youths and women, was preparing to present credible candidates for various positions for 2019 general elections. He, however, called on INEC to allow a level-playing ground for all candidates and political parties in Osun and 2019. “INEC is doing it best but we are appealing that it should do more. Nigerians are expecting a level-playing ground for all candidates and political parties.” Benson also advised the Federal Government to address the issue of rising unemployment and decaying infrastructure across the country. “We are pleading with the Federal Government that now that the budget has been passed, it should use the remaining period of the budget to address some of those challenges.” Benson condemned recent incidents in the country, including the blockade of the National Assembly and siege on residents of the leaders of the Senate by security personnel. “Again, we are not happy with the way Sen. Rabiu Kwankwaso, a presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party was denied the usage of the Eagle Square, which he had earlier paid for. “Nigeria shouldn’t be a police state where you can muscle opposition. Without opposition there cannot be democracy,” he said. He said that the DPP’s NEC meeting was to adopt its timetable and fees for nomination and expression of interest forms for aspirants in the 2019 general elections. Benson called on party members to engage in grassroots mobilisation, saying “no national office produces candidate; every candidate is coming from a pulling unit or ward before it comes to local government or state”. Mr Bassey Inyang, a fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, who defected to DPP from PDP, said his decision was motivated by the way the party was committed to its ideology and national interest.  (NAN)