By Peter Amine  Jos –   The Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Plateau on Monday expressed anxiety to return home, while appealing to both Plateau and Federal Governments to tackle lingering security challenges to make that possible. They also urged the authorities and public-spirited individuals to address the poor living conditions in the camps to forestall epidemics and other health challenges. Mr Iliya Makau, leader of the COCIN IDPs Camp, Heipang, in Barkin Local Government Area, made the appeal when the Plateau chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), took relief materials to the camp. “The camp hosts about 2,520 IDPs, but does not have foodstuffs, drugs and other basic needs. There is hunger here and this is has led to hunger and ailments among them. “As I speak to you, we don’t have what to eat. We manage to eat once a day. Besides, we are living in inhuman conditions, we don’t have mattresses or blankets to cover ourselves,” he added. Makau, however, said that their utmost priority was to return home. “We are appealing to government to assist us to go back to our homes and to enable our children, who have been out of school, to resume their studies,” he said. Mr Paul Jatau, Chairman NUJ Plateau Council, in his remarks, said that the visit was aimed at alleviating the IDPs’ sufferings, in a little way. He said that journalists were part of the society and feel every pain it goes through. “This is our little way of saying that we understand what your pains. We have been reporting your sufferings since the sad incidences began, so as to let the world know your plight. “We want to go beyond reporting and assist in the little way we can,’’ he added. Mrs Junni Bala, Director, Search and Rescue, Plateau State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), expressed appreciation to the NUJ for the gesture. “You are always with us to report the activities. Today, you have decided to support the victims, this is commendable,” she said. The Director, who said that there were 38,286 registered IDPs in the state, appealed to the government to fast track their return home. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the materials donated by the council included clothing and toiletries, among others.