By Olajide Idowu Ede (Osun) –   The Director-General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig.-Gen. Suleiman Kazaure, has advised corps members in Osun to remain neutral and apolitical while serving as ad hoc staff for the Sept. 22 governorship election. Kazaure gave the advice on Tuesday while addressing corps members during his visit to the NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp in Ede. He warned them not to collect anything from politicians and avoid being induced to commit electoral malpractices, stressing that anybody caught would be left to face the wrath of the law. “The Osun election is around the corner and some of you will be used as INEC ad hoc staff. “When you are engaged for the election, you must be neutral, non-partisan and must not take anything or financial materials from politicians. “Any corps member caught for electoral malpractice will be handed over to the law enforcement authorities,” Kazaure warned. The director-general also advised the corps members to be good ambassadors of their families, the scheme and of the country. According to him, you are to always dress decently and make good impact on the communities you are posted to. In his remarks, Mr Emmanuel Attah, NYSC State Coordinator in Osun, appreciated Kazaure for visiting the camp and for expressing his love and concern toward the corps members. Attah, however, highlighted what he and his staff had been doing to make life better for the corps members at the camp. He said that they had focused more on the welfare and healthcare of the corps members. According to him, of the 2,010 corps members who registered for the `Batch B Stream II’ orientation programme, 198 had relocated on the grounds of marital and healthcare. “Forty-eight were redeployed on marital grounds, while the remaining 150 relocated on health grounds. “We decided to take a unique step by employing serving NYSC medical doctors alongside medical laboratory scientists, pharmacists and nurses to carry out thorough screening on the corps members. “We discovered so many cases of high blood pressure, tuberculosis and some other terrible health issues. “We had to relocate those with poor health back home for proper parental care,” he said. NAN reports that highlights of the director-general’s visit include the official inauguration of the NYSC four-bedroom clinic. The clinic was built through the self-effort of the state coordinator and his staff.  (NAN)