By Mohammed Lawal  Giwa    –     The Muslim Students Society of Nigeria (MSSN), Kaduna State chapter, has trained over 800 students in primary and secondary schools on job creation towards making them employers of labour. MSSN’s Chairman, Malam Suleiman Mohammed-Umar, made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Giwa. NAN reports that Mohammed-Umar spoke on the sidelines of a six-day training workshop on skills acquisition organised by the Muslim students body. It covered training on Information and Communication Technology (ICT), sewing, knitting, tiling, soap making among others. The chairman said the essence was to improve the morals of the future leaders and educate them on self-reliance. He said that apart from skills acquisition, the event would also include classroom instructions, tutorial and public lecture on good governance. Mohammed-Umar said the ultimate goal was to shape the moral of youths to be good ambassadors of their respective families. The chairman urged individuals, corporate organisations and all other relevant stakeholders to support the society to discharge its duties diligently. Also in an interview, Alhaji Uba Sani, Political Adviser to Gov. Nasiru El-Rufa’i, said the training was timely and would help in making the participants to become useful to themselves and the nation. Sani urged Muslims to focus more on the search for knowledge and stand on their feet to enable them compete with others across the country. “I must confess that the programme is timely in view of the fact that the young generation are gathered here to be educated, enlightened and to enable them understand some of the tasks ahead of them. “I must, therefore, appreciate the wonderful initiative of MSSN for the young people to be oriented and acquainted with skills, as well as some of the fundamental objectives and teachings of Islam. “I want to encourage Muslims to be peaceful wherever they find themselves; this is a time for real sacrifice where Muslims need to be consolidated irrespective of their differences. “We must, therefore, consider ourselves as one family that need to foster unity and promote peace among ourselves and other religions.” On his part, Dr Yahaya Mujahid of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, said good governance would only thrive when leaders were sincere and have the required integrity to lead. “There must be sincerity of purpose, people must understand that leadership is not about selling or buying, it is based on integrity and if you sell out your integrity, you will be in problem. “Therefore, every citizen should understand the need to look at those with qualifications, with good intention, good records in their lives that qualify them to be good leaders.” NAN reports that the training which drew participants from primary and secondary schools across the state, would last six days.