By Akeem Abas Ogbomoso (Oyo State) –   Prof. Emiola Nihinlola, the President of the Nigeria Baptist Theological Seminary (NBTS), Ogbomoso, has called on INEC and the police to maintain neutrality during the 2019 general elections. He gave the advice at a news conference held in Ogbomoso to herald the seminary’s 2018 Annual Ministers’ conference. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nihinlola is also the Vice-Chairman, Association for Christian Theological Education in Africa (ACTEA) and the Director, International Council for Higher Education, West Africa Network. Nihinlola, a professor of Theological Studies, said the two agencies have critical roles to play in the electoral process. “These agencies should be neutral and be unbiased umpires. It is time for Nigeria to move forward socially, economically, politically and spiritually. “As the nation prepares for elections in 2019, we also call on the political class to respect the rule of law and constitutionality,’’ he said. He called on political parties to embrace internal democracy, urging politicians to learn the modern art of power-sharing and peaceful resolution of conflicts. Nihinlola also urged aspiring leaders not to force themselves on the populace. “We must not allow our youths to engage in thuggery. Politics is never a do or die affair. Our vote is our power and it is not meant to be sold. “We must be discerning and elect God-fearing people who would lead us for a common good and development of our society,’’ he said. The NBTS president stated that the annual ministers’ conference would hold between Sept. 10 and Sept. 14, adding that it would provide opportunities for fellowship and denominational promotion. He said that the objective of the conference was to celebrate the faithfulness of God and to further challenge gospel ministers to be faithful to the Word. “This conference is of special significance as the grand finale of the 120th-anniversary activities which started in November 2017,’’ he said. NAN reports that the seminary which was established in 1898 by the Southern Baptist Convention in the US first awarded the Bachelor of Theology degree in 1948. The conference with the theme, “God of Covenant, ’’ would feature musical worship, bible teachings, intercessory prayers, football matches and administration of Holy Communion. (NAN)