By Chukwuemeka Opara  Abakaliki   –      The new Commissioner of Police in Ebonyi, Musa Kimo, has said that the insinuation that he was sent to work for the opposition in the state is “mendacious’’. Kimo in his inaugurl interaction with newsmen on Wednesday in Abakaliki said that such insinuation should be dismissed by the public. “When the head is perfect, other parts of the body will be perfect as the Inspector General of Police (I-G), Ibrahim Idris, is allergic to corruption and anything that is anti-social. “We have been directed to be professional in our approach and assure the public that we will be apolitical before, during and after the elections. “We are here as servants to do our jobs and operate within international best practices, so the people have nothing to fear,” he said. The commissioner noted that any police personnel that chose to do otherwise was on his or her own as they were expected to be polite, courteous and civil in their approach to all law-abiding citizens. “The public should therefore, dismiss the insinuation because it is not associated with me or the police force. “Everybody should play by the rules of the game because the police will not fold its hands and watch people fail to play by the rules. “People should obey the laws of the land as we will draw centrifugal forces together to ensure that everyone operates within the law,” he said. He added that the police had received information that the proscribed Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) had concluded plans to harass, intimidate and molest law-abiding citizens with its sit at home order. “I want to assure law-abiding citizens not to fear, go about their legitimate businesses as cogent security measures have been put in place to guarantee their safety. “I also appeal to parents and guardians to warn their wards to desist from acts inimical to the law otherwise they will meet their waterloo. “I also warn unscrupulous elements who derive joy from inflicting pain on innocent people to desist as the police will not allow criminal acts in the state,” he said. NAN reports that Gov. David Umahi on Tuesday reacted to the insinuation when Kimo visited him, pledging that the people would resist any security apparatus undoing them. “Security operatives must be upright, professional and impartial in their approach as the state will resist security operatives that misbehave. “I must confess that when you were to be posted the state, we fought that you should not come because I was at peace with your predecessor, Titus Lamorde. “We fought most, especially when the opposition boasted that they were the ones bringing you to fight us but we were ready to fight back and insisted that you should not come. “We had to make some moves to stop you until someone that is highly placed told us to find out your pedigree and we discovered your forthrightness, professionalism and fear of God,” he said.