By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu –  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it has registered a total of 549,326 new voters in the just-suspended Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) in Enugu State. INEC’s Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Enugu State, Dr Emeka Ononamadu, said this in a Post-CVR press briefing in Enugu on Wednesday. “Enugu State registered 549,326 new voters which is 3.77 per cent of total national new or CVR registration and 22.6 per cent of total registration in South-East zone. “This places Enugu as the second state in the South-East after Abia with the highest registration. Enugu State has 17 council areas against Abia State’s 18 council areas. “Enugu is also the fifth state with the highest registration among the 36 states and FCT. This is an indication that so many Nigerians in Enugu State are now ready to participate in the 2019 General Election. “If all the Permanent Voters Card (PVCs) in the state are collected by their owners, a total of 1,961,586 will be going into the 2019 General Elections in Enugu State,’’ he revealed. According to him, as at Aug. 31, a total of 5,427 registrants got transferred into Enugu State, while 11,665 registrants applied for replacement of their defaced or lost PVCs. Ononamadu revealed that all the PVCs for those who registered in 2017 had been printed and were being distributed. “We have also been notified that the PVC of those who registered in the first quarter of 2018 has been printed and Enugu, among other states, will soon take delivery and proceed with collection while the printing of outstanding PVCs will be concluded for distribution from October 2018.’’ The REC said that the commission had a total of 89,563 uncollected PVCs while the INEC office in Enugu had been fashioning out modalities to ensure mass collection of the uncollected PVCs in all its offices in the state. “Let me also say this to those who believe that CVR did not work well in the South-East, that CVR performance in South-East was unprecedented. “During CVR, the South-East zone registered more than the North-Central and North-East. “Only North-Central registered more than South-East by only 5,722, which may change in favour of the zone after the Automated Figure Identification System (AFIS) check which should weed out double registrants,’’ he said.  (NAN)