By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Bayelsa state chapter of the All Progressives Congress has said that the party is not a party of cultist and people with violent disposition contrary to the comment credited to its ex-chairman, Tiwei Orunimegha. According to the party, Tiwei had while joining the PDP said that APC is a party of cultists and people with violent disposition. The party in a statement signed by the state Publicity Secretary, Doifie Buokoribo reminded that Tiwei who was expelled from the party cannot claim to have dumped the party. The statement reads in full: Finally, Mr. Tiwei Orunimeghe, ex-Chairman of our party who was expelled over a year ago for anti-party activities has made public his membership of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) over the weekend. Rather than do it quietly, he did it loudly and even lied against his former party and its leadership. What sort of civility and decency do we expect of a man who claims to have brought APC to Bayelsa State but turns around to say he left the party for “lack of mission and vision”? What manner of a man describes a party that he was once a chairman as having a “violent disposition”? What is the ethical orientation of a man that disagrees with his former principal, benefactor and political leader, and then turns around to abuse him in public? The All Progressives Congress (APC), Bayelsa State Chapter, wishes to make the following clear: iii) The Bayelsa State APC is neither a party of cultists nor of people with a violent disposition. We are a party of responsible, patriotic and peace-loving people. We are fully convinced that Bayelsa State can be better than the level of mass poverty, pain and hopelessness that Governor Henry Dickson had reduced it to; We wish Mr. Orunimighe and his group good luck, and thank them for coming out in the open, at long last, to identify with the party they have always done business with, including compromising our party during the last governorship election in the state. DOIFIE BUOKORIBO State Publicity Secretary All Progressives Congress 