By Segun Giwa  Akure   –      The Alliance of Social Democrats (ASD) has reduced the cost of nomination forms for youths and women by 50 per cent and 25 per cent respectively. The National Chairman of the party, Mr Emeka Okengwu, made this known in Akure on Thursday at the inauguration of the executives of the Ondo State chapter of the party. ASD is one of the new political parties registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Members of the state executives of the party include Mr Adeola Kayode, State Coordinator; Mrs Yemi Oweh, Secretary; Mr Ayanfe Adeleke, Treasurer; Mrs Victoria Osanyin, Women Leader; Mr Ade Emmanuel, Youth Leader; and Mr Peter Rasheed, Legal Adviser. According to Okengwu, the reduction in fees is to enable youths and women to aspire to positions of leadership in the country. “The party is a platform for young men and women with principles and good ideology to contest elections,’’ he said Represented by the Southern Zone National Deputy Chairman of the party, Mr Akin Akinbobola, Okengwu said the reduction in fees was to empower women and youths in the country. Okengwu said that the ASD was a revolutionary party established to actively involve Nigerians at the grassroots to change the face of politics in Nigeria. He said that the party would create a new life for the people. Okengwu also said the expression of interest forms were ready and affordable by youths and women. Kayode said that the party was committed to the ideals of social democracy which promotes private enterprise with the support of the public sector. According to him, the party will give Nigerians a leadership and governance structure that will guarantee the security of lives and property. He advised women and youths not to sell their votes but ensure the emergence of credible leaders. Speaking with newsmen, Mrs Victoria Osanyin and Mr Ade Emmanuel, the State Women and the Youth Leader respectively, urged women and youths to seize the opportunity of the party to actively participate in politics.