By Constance Imasuen  Abuja   –      The MTN Foundation has awarded scholarship to 96 blind students and 1068 students to study science and technology in 2018 academic session. Mr Dennis Okoro, Director MTN Foundation made this known on Tuesday in Abuja during the presentation of scholarship award to some of the beneficiaries. Okoro said that a total of 1164 students had so far been awarded the scholarship comprising 96 blind students and 1068 other students. He said the award of the scholarship was part of MTN social corporate responsibility in giving back to the society. “We are here for three things trust, relationship and our future over the last seventeen years, millions of Nigerians have trusted MTN with the task of providing telecommunication services. “This is why through the MTN Foundation, we invested time, resources and energy into our communities with the goal of having better relationships, working together to build a better future. “This one we are doing today is part of our programme for undergraduates in the universities in science technology and in areas we need to encourage. We don’t do it by quota we only do it by purely academic performance both for visually impaired and for normal students. “I urge you to take this opportunity to work hard and come in flying colours with high grades. On his part, Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu said the importance of scholarship awards for the benefit of Nigerians as a form of student support programme was aimed at rewarding execellent academic performance. Adamu represented by Mr Olagunju Lateef, Director Scholarship, Ministry of Education said the scholarship scheme also reduces the burden of paying high cost of tuition and other schooling on students cannot be overemphasis. “This has also motivated students in Nigeria to study harder by encouraging competition among them. “It is pertinent to acknowledge the yearly selection of brilliant but indigent students to be awarded scholarship by MTNF as it gives hope to the less privileged in the Nigerian society as well as giving them a sense of belonging. “The MTNF from inception till date has awarded a total of 8,145 scholarships valued at N8145 billion to 3114 beneficiaries and 1289 have since graduated. This is a laudable achievement on the part of MTNF and the Federal Government of Nigeria is glad that MTN has keyed into the scholarship award programme of this administration. Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor, University of Abuja, Prof. Micheal Adikwu said MTN investing on youths and blind students in science and technology was laudable. Adikwu represented by Prof. Ajaro Sunday of University of Abuja said scholarship awarded to the blind was a way of helping the blind to see. He commended MTN for the gesture and promised the foundation that the University of Abuja was ready to partner with them in the area of science and technology.