By – Igbaugba Ehigimetor  Benin    –    Mr Dennis Idahosa, a Chieftain of All progressives Congress (APC), has advised the party to field candidates that would be of immense value to the electorate. Idahosa, a former commissioner in Edo and an aspirant for House of Representative, made this appeal while answering questions from newsmen in Benin on Tuesday. According to Idahosa, presenting competent candidates with electoral value is important for the party to make electoral victory in the 2019 general elections. He that the 2019 poll would be different in the sense that personality, rather than party, would play a major factor on electoral victory. He said that to secure victory for the APC, leadership of the party across all levels, must field competent candidates that could win elections. Idahosa said though the leadership of the party should have a say on the choice of candidates, they should allow the electorate to have an input. “It is not just about picking the ticket; it is about winning the elections proper. The right candidate is the one who is at home with the people”. “I am not unaware that the party has a role to play, but principally, a sell-able candidate will make it easier for the party in securing electoral victory. “The 2019 poll is going to be one full of surprises, our party needs to be prepared and united if we are to have a successful outing,” he said. Idahosa said that APC would be victorious in the election for Ovia Federal Constituency seat because of the “abysmal” failure of the current occupant. “The present occupant of the seat, who is from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has done nothing, but to distance herself from the reality on ground in the federal constituency. “Without being a lawmaker or holding any political position, I have been able to contribute meaningfully to the development of the people. “My aim is to make much difference on the lives of the people across the 23 wards that make up Ovia federal constituency. “Victory is already ours because we are more united than we were in the 2015 elections,” he said.