By Rita Iliya Minna –  The Association of Resident Turbaned Community Chiefs and Leaders in Niger on Saturday distanced itself from a political movement known as the “Non-Indigenes Political Movement” led by one Chief Anthony Nwora. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report that the association announced this during a press conference in Minna. Chief Eze Pampas, Chairman of the association, disclosed that the association had written to the state governor and copied the Commissioner of Police, Director SSS, Commandant of NSCDC and Emir of Minna on the activities of the political movement. He said: “the political movement was capable of creating confusion, misgivings, sectionalism and discrimination among non-indigenes and indigenes of the state. “This, we believe will have far reaching negative consequences on our democratic dispensation and on the political affairs of the state. “To that effect, we the traditional leaders of various communities absolutely disassociate and distance ourselves from this non-registered political movement. “We hereby issue this disclaimer and state further that any recognition given to or any dealings and transactions conducted with this political movement does not concern or include our association,” he said. Pampas noted that their association, comprising of thirty communities, had enjoyed cordial relationship with the state government and indigene of the state for years. According to him, the association is not consulted before forming this political movement, adding that ”since we are in a political era, some pressure group have decided to come together to reach out to government. “We are leaders of non-indigenes in the state and if anything goes wrong, it is we that government will call, that is why we want government to know in advance that we have no business with this political movement. “As leaders, we believe in dialogue and presentation of whatever our grivences is to the appropriate authority and not by confrontation,” he added. (NAN)