By Chidinma Agu  Lagos,   –     The Managing Director, Lagos Water Corporation (LWC), Mr Muminu Badmus, on Thursday, said the State recorded 330 Million Gallon Daily (MGD) water deficit between January and August. In an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos, Badmus said water demand in the state had risen to about 570 MGD due to the increase in the population of the state. ”Out of this volume of water need of Lagosians, the Corporation can only boast of 220 MGD. ”To bridge this water gap, the Corporation is looking at shifting to Public Private Partnership (PPP) to provide the needed water infrastructure in the State. ”The global attention now is on this PPP arrangement since government cannot cover its provision of potable water responsibility to the people with little resources at its disposal,” he said. Badmu said the PPP arrangement would ensure the injection of both public and private funds and expertise to drive the provision of potable water to exceed the recorded 220 MGD. He said residents of the state would have cause to rejoice soon with the ongoing process meant to provide an enduring solution to their water need. Badmus said to achieve this, the Corporation needed the full support of the residents, stressing, “Once the water infrastructure is on ground, the distribution of water to households would no more be a problem.’’ The Managing Director said the PPP targeted new waterworks stations, laying of reticulation pipes in areas yet to be connected to the public mains. He said the upgrading of facilities in areas already connected to public mains was ongoing, and that the Corporation had also connected some areas previously cut off from its supply. Badmus urged residents to feel free to approach its regional offices for assistance with their water needs and new connections. He also appealed to residents to ensure prompt payment of their water bills to facilitate effective service delivery as well as report any burst pipes to the Corporation for immediate repairs.