By Emmanuel Oloniruha  Abuja –  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged world leaders to prevail on President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to ensure that 2019 general elections is credible and violence-free. In a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, on Tuesday in Abuja, the party said that the advice was critical following the alert by the United States Institute of Peace (USIP) on the elections. It said that the call from the world leaders and international bodies was important, so that electoral desperation did not result in a large-scale political and humanitarian crisis in the country. The PDP said that the independent report by USIP, which detailed the plots by the ruling party to ‘use intimidation tactics’ in the electoral
process, has vindicated its stand that the APC was not ready for credible elections. According to it, the use of violence and intimidation by the APC in recent elections, including Ekiti governorship election and by-elections in Kogi, Bauchi and Katsina states, further validates USIP’s report. The party added that USIP’s direct caution to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over manifest credibility doubts to deliver credible election, also placed a huge moral burden on the commission’s chairman. It expressed worry over the desperation of the APC as reflected in the USIP report and called on all Nigerians and friends across the globe to rally in unity. “Moreover, Nigerians are already decisive on a peaceful and united country, where compatriots live harmoniously and will do all to resist the divisive machinations, particularly ahead of the 2019 general elections.” The PDP said that the APC should know that no amount of intimidation and harassment could break the will of Nigerians in their iron-cast resolve to rally on its platform to free the nation. “Nigerians have witnessed enough violence, bloodletting and deaths and are not ready to allow such to prevail in the 2019 general elections,’’ it said.  (NAN)