By Akeem Abas  Ibadan    –      As part of activities marking his first 100 days in office, Yomi Adefusi, the Chairman of Ibadan West Local Council Development Area (LCDA), on Wednesday inaugurated projects worth millions of naira. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that Adefusi was sworn-in as the democratically elected chairman on May 14 by Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State. Among the projects inaugurated were a block of four classrooms each at St. Michaels African Church School, Apata and Abiola Jacobs Primary School, Foko all in Ibadan. “I wish to let you know that the main aim of building the classroom blocks was to give the pupils a pride of decency and their teachers’ comfort in carrying out their duties,’’ he said. Adefusi said his administration was poised to deliver more people-oriented projects as directed by the governor. “I was most worried seeing this local council area looking like a deserted area. We have been able to cut down frivolities and manage our resources prudently. “We have been able to tar roads, provide intervention where necessary, increase revenue generation and bring innovation to the management of our local government. “Some other ongoing projects are road rehabilitation and hospital rehabilitation among others,” he said. The council boss said that his administration had also awarded scholarships to five indigent students to study at the newly established Technical University and had paid their tuition for three years. He pledged that the council would continue to lay a solid foundation that could be built upon, adding that his administration would execute projects based on the people’s needs. “Let me assure you all that we would do all that is needful within the next three years. I am not here to deceive anybody. It is my burning desire to take development to our communities. “I am not here to loot council fundS. I have a big journey in politics and this is my starting point to create a good record,’’ he said. Adefusi urged the communities to make good use of the projects and ensure proper maintenance. He expressed appreciation to the governor for the opportunity given him to serve in that capacity. Mr Bimbo Kolade, the State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, urged other council chairmen to emulate Adefusi. Kolade, who was represented by Mrs Olayinka Olaleye, the Acting Permanent Secretary in the ministry, said it was important for the chairmen to replicate the achievements of the governor in their respective councils NAN reports that the event was attended by council officials, party faithful and councillors among others