By Olajide Idowu Osogbo –  Osun R-Connect Group, an NGO, has urged Osun indigenes to reciprocate the good works of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state by voting for its candidate, Gboyega Oyetola, in the Sept. 22 governorship election. The social media group, which on Friday took it’s campaign train to Ikirun, Ifelodun Local Government Area of Osun, said it was imperative to vote APC in order to sustain the developmental works in the state. The group’ s Coordinator, Mr Wale Alabi, who is also the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to Gov. Rauf Aregbesola, on Regional Integration, said its members took it upon themselves to go out to sensitise the public on why they should vote for APC. Alabi said the people needed to be reminded of all the good works and developmental projects the APC government had done and still plans to do and therefore, give them reasons to retain the APC government in office. “APC government has done so much for the people of Osun that’s why we have taken it upon ourselves to solicit the support of the people to let the development brought about by the APC government continue. “The APC government has brought about infrastructure and human development to the state and has given a lot to the people, and we think it is right and logical for us to ask the people to continue with the party. “You don’t change a winning team, it is because APC has laid a very good foundation, that is why other political parties are fighting to take over from the incumbent government. “But it is only the people that designed the master plan that laid the foundation that can take the state further and higher, and that is why we are asking the people to give their support to APC for the party to carry on with the good works,” he said. Alabi said the R-Connect Group which had tentacles in all the state council areas, would not relent in its campaign of support for the APC until the Independent National Electoral Commission places a stop to campaigns before the election.  (NAN)