By Kate Obande-Okewu  Abuja –   The Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita, on Thursday in Abuja advised civil servants to be diligent in the discharge of their duties in spite of funding challenges in the country. Oyo-Ita gave the advice at the retirement ceremony of Mr Ayodele Folayan, the Permanent Secretary, Common Services in her Office. She charged civil servants to do their jobs not just for the financial benefit but for the progress of the country. The head of service commended the outgoing permanent secretary for his excellent service, brilliance and personality in the course of his duties. She described Folayan as a humble man and an accounting officer who was able to manage situations very well. “The outgoing permanent secretary is excellent in his duties; he evenly distributes the little funds available to all offices and efficiently maintained the cleanliness of the office. “He doesn’t talk much but gets the job done. The lesson for us here is to do our job and not always focus on the financial benefit. “A good name is better than gold,’’ she said. Also, Mrs Habiba Lawal, the Permanent Secretary, Ecological Fund Office, congratulated Folayan on his retirement and wished him good health and prosperity. Mr Vincent Odafeu, the Director of Finance and Account, OHCSF, described the outgoing permanent secretary as great mentor and goal getter. “He is a superior that makes work go on even in the face of financial constraints; he is very passionate about his job. “He is an epitome of humility, and I pray God grants him the grace to excel in his future endeavours,’’ he said. In his response, Folayan thanked the head of service and the entire members of staff for their show of love toward him. He added that the head of service was his mentor, adding that nothing happened by accident in life as “God arranges everything divinely.’’ Folayan urges civil servants to maintain balance and be dedicated to their jobs even when things got difficult in the cause of their duties. He said the reward for hard work was more work but encouraged young civil servants to equip themselves with knowledge as they could.  (NAN)