By Christian Ogbonna  Yenagoa –   The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) in Bayelsa has urged INEC, security agencies and others stakeholders strive to enforce the electoral law to ensure credible 2019 general elections. The state Chairman of the congress, Mr Tari Dounana, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Yenagoa. Dounana said the survival of democracy depended largely on free, fair and credible election and the electoral body and security agencies could ensure this through the enforcement of the electoral laws. He said, however, that politicians, especially the contestants, had great role to play in ensuring credible elections in the country, Dounana condemned political thuggery and the increasing incidents of vote buying in the country’s electoral process and urged politicians and the electorate to respect electoral rules and regulations. “We are appealing to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to step up the game and ensure that all aspirants respect the electoral laws. “All critical stakeholders, including the INEC, security agencies, politicians, youths and supporters of political parties need to abide by the rules of the game. “Let us remember that we do not have any other country than Nigeria and we must all see that the democracy we have practised is sustained. “People should not get involved in anything that will truncate the democracy that we are enjoying; the political gladiators must know that winning election should not be by violence and vote-buying. “Voters should not sell their rights or youths should not be used for thuggery. So, we must abide by those tenets that will continue to promote the progress of our country,” he said. He further reminded Nigerians that the proceeds from vote selling were short-lived while the agony of helping to install bad governance could last a life time. “Respect the law, vote for the right candidate of your choice that will be able turn around the country for the best. “Avoid selling your vote; it is dangerous to the system,” he added.  (NAN)