By Awayi Kuje  Keffi (Nasarawa   –      A Non Governmental Organisation, Modibbo Haruna Buhari Charity Organisation, has cautioned Nigerians to shun violence during the 2019 general elections. Mr Modibbo Suleiman-Masaka, the organisation’s Board of Trustees chairman, made the appeal on Wednesday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Keffi, Nasarawa State. The chairman also urged Nigerians to offer special prayers for rancour-free general elections and emergence of leaders of proven integrity to steer the affairs of the country. He said it was important for Christians, Muslims and other Nigerians to work for the success of poll in 2019, and in promoting peace and unity in the country. “I am using this medium to seek for special prayers from great religious leaders and other Nigerians for God’s intervention for us to have rancour-free elections during the 2019 general elections. “Lets us also pray for the emergence of good leaders who will turn our dear and beloved country around positively. “My organisation is ready to partner government and any organisation towards creating awareness on the general masses of this great country to leave sentiments and vote credible and honest leaders come 2019,” he said. Suleiman-Masaka also sought for support to enable President Muhammadu Buhari administration to deliver the much needed dividends of democracy. “President Buhari has done well and we will continue to mobilise and drum support for his re-election bid in the interest of development. “For some time now, the country has witnessed serious economic problems, killings, corruption, political violence, armed robbery, kidnapping, farmers/herdsmen crisis among others. “We will partner police and other security agencies towards creating awareness on the need for people to embrace peace and shun criminal activities,” he added On defection, he said that most of the politicians who jumped from one party to the other do not mean well for the country and only did so out of desperation and selfishness.