By Millicent Ifeanyichukwu  Lagos   –     Bukola Duru, Head Coach, Lagos State Handball Association (LSHA), says the state’s teams will perform creditably in the National Youth Games (NYG) holding from Sept. 7 to Sept. 17 in Ilorin. Duru told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Lagos that the players in the boys and girls categories were adequately ready to standout among other participating teams. NAN reports that the Lagos State handball boys and girls’ team picked tickets for the NYG at the recently held South-West zonal elimination championships held in Abeokuta, Ogun. “We have a routine training calendar but it has been intensive since we qualified for the forthcoming NYG because it is necessary to get them to master their wings. “Lagos handball teams have always been exceptional in their performances in national championships, and our junior teams are ready to replicate that standard in Ilorin,’’ she said. She said the teams engaged some handball academies’ teams in Ogun and Oyo in friendly matches as part of preparations during the open camp for the NYG. The coach said she was impressed with the skills exhibited by the boys and girls in the buildup matches, adding that the there was team spirit in their performances. “Our preparation has undergone essential stages and we have testrun the teams readiness through the friendly matches where they confirmed their readiness to excel at the Games,’’ she added. Duru said that 16 boys and 16 girls were under the supervision of four coaches in closed camp at Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere, and Myong Barracks, Igbobi in Lagos. According to her, the closed camp will enable the coaching crew to critically understudy the players and make the best selection for the state teams for the Games. “The players are putting in their best to pick a shirt in the team, but we are going to base our selection strictly on their competence,’’ she said. She applauded the Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) for its support to the sport, adding that handball would bring honour to Lagos.