By Mateen Badru  Lagos,   –     The Inspector General of Police (I-G), Alhaji Ibrahim Idris on Tuesday donated a cow and other food items to children at the Save Our Souls (SOS) Orphanage Home, Isolo, Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the I-G had also paid similar visits to Little Saints and Ijamido Orphanages located at Egbeda and Sango areas respectively. Idris while making the donation said that the gesture was borne out of his belief that every child deserved a home and care. He donated a cow, several bags of rice, cartons of noodles and other food items to the centre as support for the children’s upkeep. The police chief, who was represented by the Area D Commander, Soji Akinbayo, an Assistant Commissioner (ACP), said taking destitute children off the streets would prevent them from being used by hoodlums. “We came here to donate items to the SOS Children’s village. I was sent by the Inspector General of Police (I-G) Alhaji Ibrahim Idris to bring these items for the use of the children here. “The IG is trying to introduce a new dimension into the system. He wants people to know that despite the tedious nature of our work, we are humans too and we care for the less privileged in our midst. “What we are trying to do is take some of these children off the street to avoid their being used by hoodlums to steal phones, other items. These homes were created to take abandoned children off the street and give them a family to grow in. “We believe that when children do not have this kind of facility to stay in and people to donate, they become vulnerable and easily take to crime. “I want the children to be encouraged and take their studies seriously. They should understand that no matter their backgrounds, they still have bright futures,” he said. Mrs. Bunmi Onifade, the Family Based Coordinator, who received the items, said a total of 126 persons brought into the home have been resettled since inception. She said they were resettled after they graduated from higher institutions and became independent. “The facility had about 123 children and teenagers it is currently catering for. “We appreciate these gifts from the office of the I-G of Police and pray that God will replenish their pocket and their support to mankind will be noticed and rewarded,” she said