By Remi Bamgbose Okitipupa (Ondo State) –   Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Tuesday promised to use every administrative process to reconnect the sothern part of the state, that had been in darkness for a decade, to the national grid. He made the promise while addressing stakeholders at a town hall meeting of the communities on ways forward on the issue. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the four councils: Okitipupa, Irele, Ilaje and Ese-Odo were majorly affected with power outage. The communities were disconnected from the national grid by the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) over some alleged high debts profile. Gov. Akeredolu said that he was worried over the 10-year darkness and the untold hardship being witnessed by the southern communities of the state. He added that the issue had been in his priority when he was inaugurated in 2017. “Any government that fails to keep its electoral promises is not a serious government but the issue of electricity most times cannot be a sole effort. “I can not but thank the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who is seriously playing a pivotal role in this restoration process. “I appeal to you all to be patient and we promise to work in terndem with the Federal Government to restore your electricity,” Akeredolu said. Earlier, Mr Ifeoluwa Akindele, the Managing Director, Niger-Delta Power Holdings PLC expressed displeasure over the power outage in the communities. Akindele, who is also an Okitipupa indigene, assured the communities of the Federal Government’s attention by restoring their electricity. “I am assuring you that these communities have got the attention of the Federal Government and the electricity will be restored in due course,” Akindele said. NAN reports that many of the indigenes that spoke at the meeting registered their grievances to Gov. Akeredolu, saying that his administration should fulfill its electioneering promises. The Deputy Governor should do everything humanly possible to work on the restoration of electricity in the areas Meanwhile, the Bring Back Our Light (BBOL) group representing youths in Okitipupa, Irele, Ilaje and Ese-Odo councils, thanked Akeredolu for his humilty in visiting the people. The BBOL Convener, Mr Olumide Akinrinlola, noted that the communities were hosting two power plants, Omotosho and Niger Delta facilities supplying other states but yet the BEDC decided to throw the communities into darkness. He restated that the communities would not take part in the December council elections and the 2019 general elections if elecrricity was not reconnected to them. *We insist that unless our light is restored, we will not take part in forthcoming elections,” Akinrinlola said. NAN reported that government functionaries, All Progressives Congress (APC) bigwigs, council caretaker chairmen, traditional rulers and indigenes of the communities were present at the meeting held at the Idepe Town Hall, Okitipupa.  (NAN)