By Cecilia Ijuo  Kaduna –   A federal lawmaker, Sen. Suleiman Hunkuyi, on Friday urged Nigerians to shun sentiments by voting for credible leaders that would meet their aspirations in 2019. Hunkuyi made the call while declaring his intention to run for governorship in Kaduna State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He spoke at a town hall meeting in Angwan Wakili, Southern Kaduna. Hunkuyi said the mandate to elect credible leaders that would deliver the dividends of democracy lay with the people, urging them to take their power seriously. He said that what gave him the confidence to take up the race was the fact that he would receive the overwhelming support of the people. The aspirant said that his decision stemmed from the people’s desire to chart a new course for the state. “My intention to run for governor is because I have the people, and that is what politics is all about. “It was the power of the people that was harnessed to remove the former government,” he said. According to him, the same power of the people will be at work in 2019. He also spoke on the lingering animosity between the Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-rufai and senators representing the state over the Senate’s refusal to approve a 350 million dollar loan sought by the state government. Hunkuyi said he had no regrets kicking against the loan. According to him, excuses by the state government that the non approval of the loan hampered infrastructure development are only to whip the people’s sympathy. “You do not build any economy using loans. “Loans are meant to be used as support packages in rebuilding the economy. “As such, the governor cannot use a loan of whooping 350 million dollars to build the economy,” he said. He claimed that no part of the loan had anything to do with infrastructure or the general welfare of the people. “What we are trying to do now is to galvanise the support of the people that brought in this government to find an alternative government in 2019,’’ he said. Hunkuyi (PDP-Kaduna) had recently defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress to PDP.  (NAN)