By Richards Nzemeke Port Harcourt –   Dr Awotien George, a Pastor at Glorious Covenant Church, Port Harcourt, has advised parents against “adopting or buying children from baby factories in the country. George gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Port Harcourt on Friday. He urged parents who want to adopt children to go to the state Ministry of Social Welfare to ensure the due diligence. According to him, adopting a child from the ministry is not cumbersome at all. George, who said himself adopted a child, noted that it involved only two parties; the ministry and adopter and not through an agent (third party). He said an application would be filed to the ministry, indicating that the applicant want to adopt a child. According to the priest, the application is processed among other formalities. The pastor said at the end a certificate was issued if the application received favourable consideration to make it a legal transaction. “It must be made legal. The aim of adopting is to care for the child and not otherwise. Child adoption in Rivers is not difficult” he said. George, who is also a senior lecturer in River State University, Port Harcourt, however, noted that some persons that “adopted’’ children from “baby factories’’ used them for rituals. “Some people adopt children from baby factories for rituals, but children are heritage from God. “If you are doing the wrong thing you will not get good result. Bad blood and criminality will be brought into the family,” he said. The cleric also urged the police to smash baby factories in the country, arrest the owners and prosecute them. “Running a baby factory is evil. They should stop the business or face the wrath of God. It is not the will of God that we market our babies,” he said. He said the owners of baby factories operating under the guise of maternity clinics assist the young girls with unwanted pregnancies. “But they could be assisted without keeping them in the `factories’,’’ he said. According to him, the factory owners are solely out to make money. George emphasised that such practice was not only an abomination, but a crime against humanity and a sin against God.  (NAN)