By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Frontline contender in Osun governorship election, Agemola Adeleke has raised the alarm over plot by the All Progressives Congress and the federal government to undermine the forthcoming governorship election in the state. The Director, Media and Publicity, Ademola Adeleke Governorship  Campaign Organisation, Olawale Rasheed who dropped the hint on Sunday in a statement sent to Sundiata Post,listed the alleged methods through which the plot will be executed. The statement reads in full: We call the attention of all democratic forces and the international community to ongoing plot by the Federal Government and the All Progressive Congress (APC) to subvert this month’s governorship election in Osun State. We note with clear warning to all anti-democratic forces that evil plots designed to rig and foist a rejected candidate of the APC on the state will fail woefully. In the last two weeks, brazen subversive decisons and steps have been taken by the APC targeted at undermining the will of the people long before election day. In an advanced system of rigging, the ruling party is executing electoral manipulations even before the polling day. The systemic manipulative plots cover the entire gamut of the electoral process and we list them as follows: We listed all the above to serve as a reminder to all democratic forces that the APC is plotting to plunge Osun and the nation into avoidable mayhem. Osun voters having been oppressed and exploited for the past eight years are not ready to succumb to any manipulation of the polls. We therefore call on men of conscience nationwide and internationally to call the APC government to order. We remind agents of electoral violence and rigging that our history in Osun State does not look kindly on election riggers. We also call on the international community to take judicious note of our evidence based alarm. As Osun State is the cradle of Yoruba race of South Western Nigeria, any tampering with Osun polls may have consequences beyond the state. The minimum we request is that the will of the electorate be respected and that the electoral umpire and security agencies remain fair and neutral before, during and after the poll. To Osun people, we call for eternal vigilance. Speak out against suspicious activities in your areas. Reject attempt to manipulate this election before, during and after the polls. God bless our dear state. Signed,
Olawale Rasheed,
Director, Media and Publicity, Ademola Adeleke Governorship  Campaign Organisation 