By Ngozi Njoku  Lagos   –      An Ogudu Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State on Tuesday granted a security guard, Emmanuel Idora, a N100,000 bail for allegedly stealing an aged woman’s ATM card. Idora was also alleged to have used the card to withdraw N70, 000 from her account without her consent. Idora who works at Raptor Security Service near Ojota Bus-stop in Lagos State is facing a charge of stealing. The prosecutor, Sgt. Lucky Ihiehie, told the court that the accused committed the offence on Aug. 25 at the Ojota branch of Fidelity Bank. He said that the complainant, Mrs Dolapo Ajewole, also a petty trader in front of Raptor Security Service, reported the case at the Ketu Police Station on Sept.1. The prosecutor said that the complainant had alleged that Idora stole her ATM card from her bag and used it to withdraw N70,000 from her bank account. He alleged that the accused also stole the paper where she wrote the card’s personal identification number {pin}. The prosecutor said, “The complainant on Aug. 28 told her son to withdraw N50, 000 from her bank account. “The son, however, discovered that the account had a balance of N30,000 left in her account and could not do the transaction. “She was shocked to hear this because she had N108, 000 as the balance in her account after her last withdrawal. “Based on this discovery, they went to the Ojota branch of Fidelity Bank to verify what had happened to her money. “The bank officials told them that someone had withdrawn money from her account with the bank using her ATM card on two occasions- Aug. 23 and Aug.26. “The bank official asked them to check back after 48 hours. “On getting there on Aug.31, the official played the tape of the CCTV camera in the bank to then, and it revealed the identity of the culprit. “On Sept.1, the accused was arrested by the police and confessed to the crime,’’ the prosecutor said. The offence contravened Section 287 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The accused, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. The magistrate, Mrs E. Kubeinje, granted the accused bail in the sum of N100, 000 with two sureties in like sum. Kubeinje said that the addresses of the sureties must be verified by the prosecutor and they must have means of livelihood. The magistrate also said that they must show evidence of payment of two years’ tax to the Lagos State Government {LASG}. She adjourned the case until Oct. 9