By Stellamaris Ashinze  Lagos   –     Lagos State Government on Monday said that it would need a minimum of five engineering landscape sites and 25 transfer loading systems to tackle environmental issues. Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode made this known at the opening of the 52nd annual conference of Science Association of Nigeria (SAN) with the theme: `’Science and Technology in Emerging Smart Cities and Sustainable Development.’’ The governor, who was represented by his Senior Special Adviser on Education, Mr Obafela Bank-Olemoh, said that the government was committed to ensuring a smarter Lagos through infrastructure development. “The environment issue is something we are confident will be a thing of the past in a few months’ time, with the ecosystem in place. “We are working to see that we have engineering landscape sites around the state. “Lagos needs a minimum of five engineering landscape sites and 25 transfer loading systems. “The Cleaner Lagos Initiative is supposed to be a private sector-driven model that can help the state government to achieve its goal in the long run,” he said. According to Ambode, the government does not have the financial strength to achieve the goal alone; it needs to involve partners. “For the government to get the sites in place, it will cost government a minimum of $25 million,” he said. He said that the state government would continue to create an enabling environment for private/public partnership. “We know that, as a government, we are to create an enabling environment, and we are doing that.
“We are excited by what is going on today. The state has no other choice, but to continue embracing technological advancement. “We appeal to Lagos residents to bear with us; the state will eventually be the best in Africa,” the governor said. According to Ambode, the first engineering landscape site being built in this country is in Epe. Lagos. Mr Sewanu Adebodun-Toplonu, Chairman, Local Organising Committee of the conference, urged SAN members to contribute their quotas to national development in line with the objectives of the association. He said that it was paramount for scientists to take their rightful positions in the society, adding that science was the bedrock of economic growth and technological advancement. The chairman said that the association would mobilise its members for robust scientific researches for the development of the state. “I am very optimistic that through SAN’s technical backup, science officers under the employ of Lagos State and the organised private sector will give support. “They will support government in providing quality services to achieve not just a smart city, but a low carbon smart city. “Scientists will commence advocacy for resource efficiency and cleaner production centres across the country,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the conference will end on April 19. SAN will celebrate 60th anniversary in December.