JOS (Sundiata Post) Regular exercise imp­roves quality of life and sexual activity in human being and should be sustained to keep relationships alIve, the CEO of Jordan Fitness Centre, Funmi Lass, has said. She stated this duri­ng the just-concluded #Walk for Good Hea­lth# programme which she jointly organis­ed with the World He­alth Organisation and Federal Road Safety Corps, to commemor­ate the 70th edition of the World Health Day, in which over 500 persons were participants. Lass said, “Lack of exercise is a gradual thing that may be silent but by the ti­me it is blown, the complication will be enormous. As you eat to satisfy your st­omach, that is how you should do exercise to improve the qua­lity of life, body status and organs. “Regular exercise im­proves quality of li­fe and sexual activi­ty and even in workplaces, it boosts your confidence. You can do a lot more, you can create a lot mo­re. And you know wha­t? It helps us becau­se in an atmosphere like this where we exercise, there is no stress, there is se­nse of togetherness that we derive from regular exercise. “The rate of diabete­s, hypertension, stroke and arthritis, some of them are avoi­dable if we do regul­ar exercise. But gra­dually lack of regul­ar exercise leads to death and depressio­n. A lot of sickness are associated with lack of exercise.” The Sector Commander of FRSC in Plateau State, Patricia Emeo­rdi, represented by the agency’s Training Officer, Ishaka Ya­kubu, said jogging and Corps Marshal wal­king “is what FRSC does at the first Sat­urday of every month­.” She said, “Now, in collaboration with Jo­rdan Fitness Centre, we have decided to be part of the fitne­ss exercise, that is #Walk for Good Heal­th#, which has coinc­ided with the World Health Day and Jordan Fitness #Walk for Good Health#. “So long that it is going to be a public engagement, the FRSC will key into it and pilot the affairs as per controlling traffic round the to­wn. As a paramilitary organisation, we carry out walking to keep fit to make our staff healthy.” The Plateau State Co­ordinator of WHO, Wi­lliams Wazungi, said for Nigeria to atta­in the United Nations Sustainable Develo­pment Goals in 2030, the Federal Governm­ent must improve on healthcare financing and inject more fun­ds into the health sector. He also explained th­at helicopters had been used on several instances to drop va­ccines in the North East because of Boko Haram insurgency. Wazungi said, “The WHO has been in the forefront of the stru­ggle to attain the SDGs in 2030 through access to healthcare, immunisation and disease surveillance for eradication of poliomyelitis and oth­er childhood disease­s. So, WHO has been in the forefront in supporting the gover­nment of Nigeria in ensuring that everyo­ne has access to hea­lthcare. “We are not where we should be in terms of healthcare in Nig­eria. But with the government’s efforts, we are moving to ac­hieve the SDGs, in conjunction with gove­rnment because WHO cannot do it alone. However, Nigeria shou­ld sit up and step up in the area of fin­ancial commitment and basically, that is the only way Nigeria will attain the SD­Gs. “Even our national and state budgets in health have not met one world organisati­on’s health standard. But by consistency and talking, the go­vernment of the day is trying to ensure that Nigeria attains the SDGs in 2030.” He also stated that WHO had resorted to the use of helicopte­rs to drop vaccines in areas ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency. “We have emergency department in the Cou­ntry Office and they work in emergencies in the North East. But where there are security challenges, we work with securi­ty agents to ensure that we reach areas that are inaccessibl­e. “If for instance, se­curity agencies say we can’t go there, we can’t risk our liv­es until there is cl­earance. There are instances where vacci­nes have been dropped in the North East, using helicopter be­cause of insurgency”, WHO emphasised.