Enugu –  The Projects Development Institute (PRODA), Enugu, has announced suspension of union activities in the institute due to crisis and factionalism of its labour union. The Chairman of the PRODA Governing Board, Mr Daniel Onjeh made the disclosure in Enugu on Friday while briefing newsmen after the inaugural meeting of the board. Onjeh dissolved the two factions to pave way for genuine intervention and resolution of the lingering crisis. He noted that the labour crisis had caused unnecessary tension and embarrassment in the institute. ”Consequently, the board has resolved that the activities of both factions be suspended indefinitely at all PRODA locations with immediate effect “The board, therefore,calls on its national body to expeditiously wade into the conflict of the two factions for reconciliation within the next three months. “Substantive elections should be conducted to appoint new executive members for the union,” he said. Onjeh said that the board would push for increased budgetary provision for the institute to address its numerous problems. The chairman said that the internally generated revenue of the institute was insignificant to meet its needs. “The board will also take all necessary measures to increase budgetary overheads to PRODA as the institutions internally generated revenue is currently insignificant to meet its huge expenditure needs,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the unions dissolved are the Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions (SSAUTHRIAI) and Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN). “The board is aware that a parallel faction of SSAUTHRIAI is operating in the institute under the name ASCSN. “However, the board recognises the SSAUTHRIAI as the legitimate union backed by law for the senior staff of research institutes. “The board is also aware that the ASCSN was a breakaway from SSAUTHRIAI following an internal dispute,” he said. Onjeh also gave immediate quit notice to illegal occupants of PRODA property. “The board will not condone the situation where persons who have retired from the service of the institute and have had their retirement benefits fully settled are still occupying their staff quarters. “Having reviewed all available documents, the board noted that no offer was made under any guise, relinquishing the property to the retired members of staff. Hence, they are illegal occupants,” he said. The board chairman said that the refusal of such people to quit had denied several current members of staff their rights to affordable accommodation within the vicinity of the institute. “This has had a negative impact on staff productivity. The board has directed management to promptly reallocate all affected accommodations to current members of staff that are in need of them,” he said. Onjeh said that the workshop of the institute in Trans Ekulu, Enugu was inhabitable, adding that the use of the workshop be suspended until it was revamped. NAN further reports that the institute established in 1971 was envisioned to be the bedrock of Nigeria’s industrial revolution by advancing scientific and technological innovations and breakthroughs. It is also set up to take a leading role in engineering research and developments by employing local materials and processes. (NAN)