ABUJA (Sundiata Post) Ebitu Ukiwe Street in Jabi Area of Utako District of Abuja was once a very quiet place. However, since the GT Bank moved its main entrance to the Street, traffic chaos has taken over the area,  with undisciplined and nauseatingly arrogant motorists causing needless traffic obstructions. Despite the limited parking  space inside the premises of the Bank, every customer with a car wants to park their vehicles  inside. Everybody is too big to park their car outside by the side of the road and walk the short distance into the bank. As a result, traffic chaos builds up everyday on Ebitu Ukiwe street. The unruly customers refuse to obey simple and polite request to respect the right of way of others who are driving along the Street to other destinations. An incident occurred last week when an unruly customer slapped one of the Bank’s security staff who was  posted to the gate to maintain orderliness and stop traffic obstruction. Despite the knowledge that he was obstructing traffic, the arrogant customer refused to move his car to ease traffic flow. Instead, he publicly slapped security man for asking him to respect the right of way of others. Surprisingly, instead of standing by the poor security man for the physical assault and humiliation that he had suffered, I was told this morning that the Bank management has terminated the appointment of the security man. Should an employer support injustice against its own staff because they value money above humanity and justice? I would have expected the Bank to stand by its staff in the course of performing their lawful duties. I see no reason why a customer should slap a security man who politely appealed to him not to cause traffic obstruction, and despite being informed that there was no parking space inside.  
I am appalled by this injustice against the poor security man because it seems obvious that the Bank’s management regards profits as more important than humanity and justice. It means a poor employee can be  sacrificed for the sake of a customer even if the customer is an  arrogant lawbreaker or because he has connections. This incident is not good for the reputation of GT Bank. You don’t aid and abet a hostile aggressor against his victim who was just doing his job legitimately. Our apathy to incidents like this feeds injustice, and if injustice goes unreported, it grows like a malignant cancer. Source: Facebook