By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja （Sundiata Post）-  Arewa Christians & lndigenous Pastors Association （ACIPA）has described the Aso Rock visit by Arewa Pastors
Non-denominational Institute for Peace in Nigeria (APNIPN) as betrayal by men in cassock and white collar akin to role of Judas during Jesus’ ordeal, adding that they are the Judas of the Christians in the North and in Nigeria as a whole.  ACIPA while reminding that the  fraudulent and sycophantic visit to Aso Rock was for pecuniary benefits also noted that it amounted to turning blind eye  to the plight of Northern Nigerians, particularly the Christians under this administration.  The group while disclosing this in a statement signed by its President, Rev. Luke Shehu, further informed that the government’s failure carry out background check on the  organisation confirmed the desperation for endorsement on the part of government.  The statement reads in full： With deep sorrow and pain, it became compelling for us to respond to
the unfortunate and sad comments and endorsement of Buhari and his
administration as well as berating other Christians by Arewa Pastors
Non-denominational Institute for Peace in Nigeria. Suffice to say that we are not in any way whatsoever connected to John Richard or his organization, we also dissociate all clergies from the North under our auspices from their desperately fraudulent and sycophantic visit to Aso Rock.  It is unfortunate that their acceptance of this visit by Aso Rock without doing necessary background check on this organization further confirms desperation for endorsement by this government. For us as leaders and as an organization, we are never desperate for Presidential or executive handshake nor the largesse that goes with sycophancy. In the same vein, we dissociate and distant our organization and all
Christians in the North from the Northern Inter-faith and Religious
Organizations for Peace (NIFROP) who choose to be blind to the plight
of Northern Nigerians particularly the Christians under this administration for obvious pecuniary benefits.  Worst still, NIFROP chose to take a position against our hero, General T.Y Danjuma. Today, we are making our position known against the inherent weakness
and inability of this administration to fulfil a simple and common  Constitutional responsibilities of safe-guarding life and properties
among others. Richard and his group don’t need to go far to get information against opposition to this government’s unpopular policies and their bias. We are waiting for the arrest since they have chosen to be the fifth columnists against popular will. While in their disgraceful outing, they volunteered to be informants to security agents against opposition and literally begging for money, they could not mention the fate of Leah Nathan Sharibu in the hands of terrorists for refusing to renounce Christ.  In this regard, we are in support with the position of the Northern clan against NIFROP and their visiting team to the Presidency. We are not surprised that this betrayal by men in cassock and white collar came at the Easter season; thus confirming that like in the days of Jesus’ betrayal by Judas, we still have some who claim to be disciples but in truth are the Judas amongst us. These are some of the Judas of the Christians in the North and in Nigeria as a whole. This is the beginning of the exposures of betrayers in Nigeria, either among compromising religious leaders, the Presidency including the likes of the SGF, Boss Mustapha, the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari or the sponsors of terrorists. Rev. Luke Shehu ACIPA President