By Cecilia Odey Abuja –  Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), a Non-Governmental Organisation(NGO), has urged the National Assembly to constitute a judicial commission of inquiry into Wednesday’s invasion of the Senate by hoodlums.
The organisation’s National Coordinator, Mr Emmanuel Onwubiko, made the call in a statement in Abuja.
He suggested that judges serving in the Federal Judicial Service Commission should comprise the membership of the commission, with a Justice of the Supreme Court and chairman.
Onwubiko said that outcome of the probe would help in safeguarding the integrity and honour of the nation’s democratic institutions.
He also called for the arrest and prosecution of the sponsors and perpetrators of the invasion.
“The criminal act of violence and depravity visited on the national assembly by armed goons suspected to have been brought by a suspended Sen. Omo-Agege must not be allowed to go unpunished.
“The criminal and shameful act is truly an attempt to overthrow the legitimately constituted authority of the legislative arm of government.
“There is no doubt that the invasion of the senate by is not just a slap on the integrity of the legislature but has brought global opprobrium on Nigeria.
“This is in addition to the general state of insecurity and coordinated killings of innocent citizens by armed herdsmen.
“We are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to take measures to sanction or sack all the heads of the security forces that have shown a high level of professional incompetence,’’ he said.
The coordinator described the invasion as “a dangerous precedent and a deadly attack” on a key institution of Nigeria’s democracy.
He alleged that the invasion was possible because of the collusion and conspiracy of the security forces stationed at the National Assembly, pointing out that any attack on the legislature was attack on democracy.
“We, as citizens of Nigeria must resolutely and collectively speak out and take action to defend the constitutional democracy that we are enjoying.
“This is because some reactionary forces are carrying out dangerous and unconstitutional activities that may instigate military’s violent overthrow of the government.
“Nigerians must do everything within our powers to stop these enemies of Nigeria from destroying civil rule,’’ he said. (NAN)