Kano –   Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state has given land owners for the proposed mega gas pipeline by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) acquisition notice, preparatory to the commencement of the Project. This is contained in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Malam Abba Anwar and made available to newsmen in Kano on Wednesday. The statement said that Gov. Ganduje issued a notice of land acquisition in line with the Land Use Act No. 6 of 1978 LFN CAP 202, to allow the state government to acquire the land for the execution of the gigantic project. The governor said the land acquired was for the establishment of Trans-Nigeria Gas Pipeline Project starting from Ajaokuta-Abuja-Kaduna-Kano (AAKK) section. “The communities affected by the gas pipeline project in Kano state include Tarau-Gwarzo road, Crossing of Chiromawa River, Chiromawa Garun Malam road, Crossing Tamburawa River and other areas that include Crossing of 33KVA High Tension. “In appreciation of the federal government’s effort in the establishment of Trans-Nigeria Gas Pipeline Project , Gov. Ganduje has issued a notice of land acquisition in line with the Land Use Act No. 6 of 1978 LFN CAP 202, to allow for land for the execution of the project. “In pursuant to the power conferred on the governor by Section 28 (1) of the Land Use Act of 1978, the Governor hereby revoke all existing Statutory or Customary Right of Occupancy on the said parcel of land, more particular described in the schedule hitherto with effect from the date of this notice, “the statement added. Ganduje also assured residents in the affected communities of prompt payment of compensation, warning however that any person who presented false land claims would be prosecuted. It also added that the NNPC is wiling to pay compensation in respect to crops, building structures and unexhausted improvement on the land in accordance with Section 29 of the Land Use Act 1978. The statement also warned that any person who makes any false claim in respect of the parcel of land to the government will be imprisoned for one year or to pay a fine of N5,000. Similarly, Ganduje said members of the affected communities should not make any attempt to obstruct the government from executing its developmental project. While explaining the economic benefits of the project, the governor said it would help in reviving the state’s “failing industries”. “Such opportunity would make gas more available in the state and create more employment opportunities for Kano people. “It would at the same time boost modern industrial development and expansion in the state,” he said.(NAN)