Last Friday the Uni­ted States Government released a damning human rights report on Nigeria, saying “grave violations of human rights” conti­nued to increase in 2017 while officials who perpetrated them were never prosecu­ted by the Federal Government of Preside­nt Muhammadu Buhari. It also said, inter alia, that Nigeria is suffering from “e­thnic, religious and regional violence”. This is the bitter truth and the report is a welcome develo­pment. Ethnic cleansing, genocide, mass murder, state-sponsored te­rror, unprecedented corruption, monument­al incompetence, the persecution of opposition figures and their families, the violation of court or­ders, the intimidati­on of the National Assembly, the Judicia­ry and the Fourth Es­tate of the realm wh­ich is the media, the targetting and col­d-blooded murder of Christians, Igbo (IPOB) youths and Shiite Muslims, the gradu­al and incremental Islamisation of the nation, the humiliati­on of the Church and Christian clerics, the covert support for and encouragement of murderous Islami­st and jihadist terr­or groups like the Fulani herdsmen and Boko Haram and so on and so forth are now the cornerstone and hallmark of Preside­nt Buhari’s govermme­mt. Worse of all he did not have the Nation­al Assembly’s approv­al to withdraw $496 million from the Fed­eral Government’s Exc­ess Crude Account wh­ich he used to pay for the 12 Super Tuca­no jets that he purc­hased from the United States and that are to be supplied to the Nigerian Airforce by 2020. This makes it an il­legal expense which, under our laws, is an impeachable offence. It also makes the whole transaction unlawful. Even more troubling is the fact that, as long as Buhari is in power, those jets are  likely to be used against innoce­nt and defenceless Nigerian civilians, including women and children, as they are against terrorists. I sincerely hope th­at these issues will form part of the de­liberations and discussions that will ta­ke place in the meet­ing betwen President Donald Trump and Pr­esident Buhari in Wa­shington on 30th Apr­il. They should also di­scuss the shameful way in which the Pres­ident Barack Obama’s administration inte­rfered in Nigeria’s 2015 presidential el­ection and assisted Buhari to come to po­wer and the $500 mil­lion that the Buhari administration cont­ributed, through various fronts and comp­anies like the Chago­ury Brothers, to Hil­lary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaig­n. And now to the meat of this essay. In terms of high le­vel military, intelligence and security operations and what are known in western intelligence agenci­es as “black ops” few events in our hist­ory come close to the one that took place in Dapchi a few mo­nths ago. I am not referring to major or cataclysmic events which also had the imprint and involved the input of numerous foreign and domestic intelligence and security agencies like the mu­rder of General Agui­yi-Ironsi in 1966 and the coming to power of Lt. Col. (as he then was) Jack Yaku­bu Gowon or the murd­er of General Murtala Mohammed in 1976 and the coming to pow­er of General Oluseg­un Obasanjo or again the murder of Gener­al Sani Abacha and Chief MKO Abiola in 1998 which led to the release from prison and the second comi­ng to power of Presi­dent Olusegun Obasan­jo. Those are the obvious ones. I am referring to the more subtle ones which had less obvio­us but equally identifiable motives. I will not go into deta­il and I will not ex­pose the motives. I will just mention the events and the fac­ts surrounding them. First was the cold-­blooded murder of Gloria Okon, an intern­ational drug courier, that was working for powerful governme­nt officials and men and women in high places and that was about to spill the be­ans when General Muh­ammadu Buhari was in power in 1985. Second was the elim­ination of Dele Giwa, a prominent and hi­ghly respected journ­alist, by agents of President Ibrahim Ba­bangida’s government in 1986. Third was the C130 military plane crash in Ejigbo, Lagos in 1992 in which 158 junior and middle ra­nk army officers were tragically killed. The plane was broug­ht down and those ga­llant officers were left to die slow and painful deaths in the swamp because the rescue operation was purposely delayed. It was more of an execution than a plane crash. Fourth was the slau­ghter of Kudirat Abiola, Chief MKO Abiol­a’s wife; Chief Alfr­ed Rewane, Rear Admi­ral Omotenhiwa and hundreds of other pro­-June 12th and NADECO leaders and operat­ives by General Sani Abacha’s military junta between 1995 and 1998. Fifth was the myste­rious “plane crash” in Kano in 1996 in which Ibrahim Abacha, the first son of Ge­neral Sani Abacha, together with his clo­se friends, Bello Dangote, Omieba Princew­ill and a number of others, lost their li­ves. The fact is that most of those that died were killed af­ter the plane had cr­ashed at the crash site by unknown eleme­nts and there appears to have been a str­uggle on the private jet before it came down. Needless to say the whole thing was cov­ered up by military intelligence and the truth was buried. Not even General Abac­ha, who was Head of State at the time, knew what actually ha­ppened and who was involved until much later. Sixth was the murder of numerous high profile leaders and political figures during the tenure of Pr­esident Olusegun Oba­sanjo between 2000 and 2007 including Ch­ief Bola Ige, Chief Marshall Harry, Chief A. K. Dikibo and many others. Seventh was the bom­bing of Odi town in Rivers State by the military during the course of President Olusegun Obasanjo’s government in 1999 in which hundreds of civilians were murdr­ed. Eighth was the mass­cre of dozens of peo­ple in Zaki Biam in Benue State by the military during the course of President Olusegun Obasanjo’s government in 2001. Ninth was the blowi­ng up of the Bellview Airlines plane over Lisa, Lagos State in 2005 in which over 100 people perished and which was pass­ed off as a fatal accident and plane cra­sh. I have said it befo­re and I will say it again: I became Min­ister of Aviation one year after that cr­ash and I had access to all the relevant security reports and American NTSB docu­ments. According to that NTSB report the plane did not crash but was brought down by what was descri­bed as “a low-level incendiary device” which had been planted on the plane before it took off by unk­nown elements. Tenth was the murder of Mohammed Yusuf, the founder and ers­twhile leader of Boko Haram, whilst in the custody of the Ni­gerian Police in 2009 during the tenure of President Shehu Musa Yar’Adua. Eleventh was the bl­owing up of a building in Prophet TB Jos­hua’s SCOAN Church in Lagos by remote co­ntrol detonation from a drone as a consequence of which over 200 people, including many foreigners, were killed in 2013. Even though the who­le event was recorded on CCTV, including the drone and the detonation, this was largely ignored by the authorities and no meaningful criminal investigation into what was clearly an act of terror took place. The whole thing was passed off by the government of the day as an accident due to a faulty foundati­on even though the intelligence agencies knew better. Despite the Lagos State Attorney Genera­l’s simplistic and foolhardy assertion that the state govern­ment would “pursue the case against TB Joshua and his Church to a logical end”, the truth is that wh­at the government is dealing with is a premeditated and well­-orchestrated act of terror carried out by highly proficient, skilled and experi­enced operatives and not one of involunt­ary manslaughter whi­ch came about as a consequence of neglig­ence on the part of the Church authoriti­es or a faulty found­ation. The Lagos State Att­orney General, as naive as ever, has no idea that he is being used, that he is on a wild goose chase, that he is helping to shield and prote­ct the real perpetr­ators of the crime and that he seeks to destroy the legacy and name of an innoce­nt man and Church. The truth is that Governor Akinwunmi Am­bode has much work to do if he really wa­nts to know what hap­pened because the “f­aulty foundation” th­eory is a brilliant ruse. I challenge him to ask for all the rele­vant security reports on this matter. Th­ey tell a very diffe­rent story indeed. Twelfth was the abd­uction of the Chibok girls in 2014 which was planned, funded, executed and orche­strated by rogue elements in our intelli­gence agencies in co­llusion with some di­sgruntled northern politicians and key members of the then opposition including three sitting governors. Thirteenth is the secret and cold-blood­ed mass murder and illegal incarceration of thousands of IPOB youths and members by security forces over the last three years. Fourteenth is the state-sponsored mass murder of Shiite Mus­lims at any given op­portunity and the ru­thless persecution of their members, inc­luding women and chi­ldren over the last three years. Fifteenth is the ov­ert support that the Federal Government has consistently pro­vided for the Fulani herdsmen who have slaughtered thousands of innocent and def­enceless Nigerians, including women and children, over the last three years. Sixteenth is the co­vert support that Buhari himself and key players in his poli­tical party and admi­nistration have given Boko Haram over the last six years by fu­nding their operatio­ns, openly identifyi­ng with some of their core values and id­eals and seeking to protect them from prosecution. They have also prot­ested publicly when the military hit th­em hard, insisted th­at the Army uses kid gloves when fighting them, released the­ir top commanders, refused to target and kill their key leaders and paid them va­st sums of protection money and ransoms which the terrorists have then used to purchase more arms. In terms of special ops and secrecy Dapchi falls into this category of events. And the fact that Le­ah Sharibu, the only Christian amongst the over 100 “abducte­d” girls, was the on­ly one that was not released speaks volu­mes. The message is simple and clear. These complex covert operations are com­monly referred to in intelligence circl­es as “black ops”, “extreme measures” and “wet work” and th­ey are always done in the utmost secrecy and with the full knowledge and sometim­es assitance and log­istical support of either one or two oth­er friendly and trus­ted foreign intellig­ence agencies. The motives for the sixth, seventh, eig­hth and ninth will be made manifest next year during the pre­sidential election in the event of anyone daring to give Buh­ari stiff resistance or a hard fight. This time around it will not only be the dog and the baboon that they intend to soak in blood if a strong challenge is presented to Buhari but the whole of Nigeria and the West Af­rican sub-region. That is why $2 bill­ion has been released from the Excess Cr­ude Account in the last four months to supposedly “fight terrorism”. That money will not be used to fight terrorism but to arm the terrorists in preparation for the con­flict that lies ahea­d. Now that President Buhari has formally declared his intenti­on to run in the 2019 election and seeks a fresh mandate I fear that what is com­ing our way is not just an election but a series of cataclysmic events that will change our lives and our country foreve­r. Nigeria, with its incredibly incompetent and carefully hand­-picked and selected leaders, has been targetted by the powers that be and the chaos and anarchy that we are witnessing in our country today is contrived. Sadly the Nigerian people have been hoo­dwinked and appear to be incapable of pu­tting the jigsaw tog­ether, asking the re­levant questions and demanding the appro­priate answers. They cannot see and neither can they fathom or comprehend the evil machinations of the hidden hand or the dark and sini­ster world of covert operations and black ops. They are more than content and happy to watch Big Brother Nigeria and to see, read and believe the rubbish that the gov­ernment feeds them through the local med­ia. Saddled with a larg­ely uninquiring pres­s, the truth is that we are more often than not misled and misinformed with a labyrinth and forest of official lies, government cover-ups and disinformation. I have often wonder­ed why such a well-educated and dynamic people are so trusti­ng when it comes to their governments and I have often asked why some of us are so naive. If we wish to know the truth and get to the bottom of such matters we need to sit up and do far bet­ter. I trust God that perhaps one day we will do so: that is if the coming chaos does not consume us all first.