By Muhammad Nasir Bashir Dutse –  The Jigawa Government on Wednesday opened bid for the construction of one Specialist Hospital, three General Hospitals and a School of Nursing and Midwifery in the state. Dr Abba Zakar, the state’s Commissioner for Health, stated this while speaking at the official opening of the bid in Dutse. Zakar, represented by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Alhaji Ali Garba, said that the specialist hospital would be constructed in Kazaure local government area of the state. He said that the school of nursing and midwifery would be built in Babura local government area. According to him, the three general hospitals will be constructed in Guri, Garki and Buji local government areas. The Commissioner disclosed that more than 20 construction companies were competing for the contracts. “As you may be aware, what we are witnessing today, public bid opening is considered to be one of the most essential Due Process Procedure in complying with conditions and guidelines for the award of contract in Jigawa state. “The main purpose of opening the bid publicly is to make the procedure of contract award as transparent as possible and it will also avail the bidders the opportunity to compare the status of their applications to that of their colleagues. “It is, however, important to bring to the notice of the bidders that the lowest quotation does not mean an automatic qualification of winning the contract, rather it can be considered as wining the first step of crossing the hurdles. “This is because immediately after the bid opening, the bid documents will be subjected to series of scrutiny by a team of professionals for the purpose of evaluating bids to ensure that other essential criteria are fully met,” he explained. Zakar also warned that any deviation by successful bidders without due approval from relevant authority may lead to the revocation of the contract. The Commissioner, therefore, advised the successful bidders to be very critical with conditions provided in the contract agreement, particularly time frame and quality of work. “As regards to the execution of the projects by successful bidders, it is imperative to the notice of the bidders that the State Ministry of Health is very strict on the agreement signed with contractors on the contract award. “Therefore, any deviation without due approval from relevant authorities may lead to the revocation of the contract. “So successful bidders are strongly advised to be very critical with conditions provided in the contract agreement, particularly time frame and quality of work,” he said. He said the projects would be funded with the 2018 State Government budgetary allocation to health sector. (NAN)