By Chinyere Joel-Nwokeoma Lagos –   Concerned Shareholders of Oando Plc on Tuesday urged Federal Government to prevail on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) to lift the technical suspension placed on the shares of the company without any further delay. The shareholders at a news briefing in Lagos said the continued suspension of Oando shares was sending wrong signals to the global community about the seriousness of the Federal Government in attracting foreign direct investments to bolster the economy. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that NSE, on Oct. 18, 2017, announced that it had placed the shares of OANDO, a public quoted energy company trading on the floor of the NSE, on ‘full suspension for 48 hours.’ The exchange, thereafter on Oct. 23, 2017, further announced that it had placed the shares of the company on ‘Technical Suspension’. The NSE in a letter dated Oct. 18, 2017 informed the company that the suspension of its shares by the NSE was done in compliance with a directive issued to it by SEC. Mr Patrick Ajudua, Head, Concerned Shareholders of Oando, speaking on reasons for the immediate lifting of the technical suspension, said that the continued suspension of the company’s shares could also send wrong signals about the prevailing operating environment in the country. Ajudua said that the Federal Government must protect a prosperous company like Oando from going down if it wanted to demonstrate to the investing world about its seriousness to attract investors to the country. “The continued suspension of OANDO PLC is a wrong signal to the global market about the prevailing harsh operating environment in Nigeria, and this is at variance with the Federal Government’s initiatives to diversify the economy through increased Foreign Direct Investment. ”We appeal to the Federal Government to intervene in our travails because the international investment community is keenly watching. ”The value of the investment we as shareholders of Oando have made is being eroded because of this continued suspension of trading. We appeal that this suspension order must be lifted now. ”We, therefore, call on President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, GCFR; Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, CON; Speaker, House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, and other well-meaning Nigerians to, as a matter of urgency, prevail on the NSE and SEC to review their position”, he said. According to him, the continued suspension of Oando stock price is not in the best interest of the shareholders of the Company and investors in the capital market. Ajudua said that in spite of the troubles which the joint action of the NSE and SEC had subjected Oando, the management had continued to show the willingness and commitment to resolving the issues that gave rise to the technical suspension of the shares. “Management of Oando in the spirit of respect and compliance with regulatory guidelines voluntarily withdrew all legal proceedings brought against the SEC and the NSE in defending its position. ”This action was taken in the best interest of the company’s numerous shareholders and the nation in particular. Even the legal action we as shareholders instituted against SEC, we have equally withdrawn. ”We cannot, therefore, understand why the NSE and SEC have continued to place OANDO shares on suspension,” Ajudua stated. Mr Badmus Babatunde, another shareholder, said: “by virtue of the sustained suspension, we the shareholders have been unable to benefit from the positive sentiments in the market within this period. “It is also important to note that Oando Plc’s stock was a major contributor to the NSE 30 Index’s performance particularly in the first three quarters of the year 2017, prior to the suspension; thus, the relevance of the stock cannot be over-emphasised. ”We strongly appeal to the Exchange and SEC to exercise their good judgment by lifting the Technical Suspension placed on trading in the shares of Oando for the good of all,” Babatunde said. (NAN)