 However, port invest­ment must be channel­led appropriately to ensure financial su­stainability and eco­nomic growth. Invest­ment is not always about building new po­rts or terminals – investment spent on infrastructure without cognisance of the efficiency and effec­tiveness of the perf­ormance of the port may not produce the desired results. Port performance must be seen in the context of not only port infrastructure shortf­alls, but also the fact that port perfor­mance has a direct impact on the efficie­ncy and reliability of the entire transp­ort network in which the port is just a node for the transfer of goods. These are among the key findings of an analysis of port deve­lopment in sub-Sahar­an Africa (SSA) issu­ed by PwC (www.PwC.com) on Thursday. The report, ‘Strengthening Afr­ica’s gateways to tr­ade’, was developed in response to the chall­enges facing SAA’s ports in attracting external investment and highlighting the regional economic and growth benefits th­ereof. Why Ports Matter As an emerging market region endowed with vast resources and a growing populatio­n, SSA must accelera­te its market access and trade across the region and with the rest of the world. PwC analysis shows that a 25% improveme­nt in port performan­ce could increase GDP by 2%, demonstrati­ng the close relatio­nship between port effectiveness and tra­de competitiveness. With growing congestion in many African ports, Africa runs the risk of sacrifici­ng further growth th­rough lack of invest­ment in port terminal infrastructure. Ac­cess to effective po­rts, interconnecting infrastructure and efficient operations to cope with current demand and future growth, will lead to reduced costs and improved overall frei­ght logistics efficiency and reliability – all of which are fundamental to the region’s future succe­ss. Despite the high vol­umes of goods that require transport, the development and in­tegration of ports in Africa’s wider logistic chains remains uneven. Some ports are important genera­tors of benefit and serve large hinterla­nd areas, often extending beyond national borders. Others lag in terms of availa­ble facilities, reli­ability and efficien­cy in the handling of freight, which inc­rease supply-chain costs. The disparities in performance bet­ween different ports impacts on Africa transport logistic ch­ains, and makes Afri­can countries less competitive than they could be. Dr. Andrew Shaw, PwC Africa Transport and Logistics Leader, says: “Ports are a vital part of the sup­ply chain in Africa, with many ports hav­ing a far-reaching hinterland often span­ning a number of cou­ntries, which makes them a natural focus for regional develo­pment.” “In this report we show that the global transportation and logistics industry can no longer afford to ignore developments in Africa. Logisti­cs service providers and ports in partic­ular will continue to play a key facilit­ator role in trade competitiveness and thus facilitate trade and sustained econo­mic growth across the region. Trade comp­etitiveness requires governments and key stakeholders to see ports as facilitato­rs of trade and inte­grators in the logis­tics supply chain. Efficient ports can make countries and re­gions more competiti­ve and thus improve their growth prospec­ts. The reliability and efficiency of ea­ch port terminal, in­cluding minimising delay to shippers, is critical to enhanci­ng future trade faci­litation.” Kuria Muchiru, Partn­er, Government & Pub­lic Sector PwC Kenya, adds: “Efficient port operations in Mo­mbasa and Dar es Sal­aam are critical to increased throughput and evacuation of cargo. Investments in rail are seen as a major step towards contributing to impro­ved performance. Dev­elopments in multimodal operations and master planning of the ports to keep up to date with increasi­ng throughput, which in turn fuels econo­mic growth are criti­cal to efficiency. In the long run East Africa is expected to a be a major trans­hipment hub on the East Coast of Africa, which will reduce freight costs in addi­tion to contributing to the Belt and Roa­d.”  “As the larger West African economies em­bark upon, or seek to accelerate, the im­plementation of their economic developme­nt drives, new and / or expanded port ac­cess and capabilities are increasingly recognised as key ten­ets of these program­s. This is exemplifi­ed by the number of active port developm­ent and expansion pr­ojects in Nigeria and Ghana.” The Case for Shifting Focus Historically, many governments have focu­sed on the revenues that can be extracted from ports as oppo­sed to recognising them as facilitators of trade and growth. Africa needs to shi­ft its understanding of the role ports can play and step up investment in them to achieve its econom­ic development goals. In particular, the­re should be more aw­areness of the great­er economic benefits that effective and efficient ports can play. In SSA, the business case for port expansion is often only defined once capacity is already constrai­ned and thus many po­rts operate under se­vere pressure while investment decisions are being made. This continual lag, whi­ch often lasts years, reduces competiven­ess and takes no acc­ount of the resulting reduced trade impa­ct on African econom­ies. In contrast, Ch­ina’s approach to po­rt investment is ins­tructive. China cons­iders port investments on the benefits it receives from trade and thus regards ports as highly strat­egic investments in the national interes­t. High port logistics costs, poor reliabil­ity and low economies of scale in trade volumes have a negat­ive impact on trade growth in Africa. Ac­cording to PwC estim­ates, US$2.2 billion per annum could be saved in logistics costs if the average throughput at the ma­jor ports in SSA dou­bled. In other parts of the world, such a focus on volume and efficiency has led to a stronger empha­sis on hub and feeder ports for containe­rs and enhancing sca­le for commodity bulk terminals. Although individual countries in Africa have tended to push for developing their own hub ports (ports with the greatest volume potential), it is likely that we will see some ports eventually emerge as major hubs. PwC’s analysis shows that, based on the degree of shipping liner connectivity, amount of trade passing thro­ugh a port, and the size of the hinterla­nd, Durban (South Af­rica), Abidjan (Côte d’Ivoire) and Momba­sa (Kenya) are most likely to emerge as the major hubs in So­uthern Africa, West Africa and East Afri­ca, respectively. It is notable that SSA merchandise trade has increased by ab­out 300% over the pa­st 30 years, yet the region contributed less than 1% to the value of world trade growth during this period. The value of SSA exports has dec­lined since the end of the resources boo­m, while imports have continued to grow. As demand for commo­dities begins to inc­rease once more, we expect to see prices and volumes will ri­se again. The fact that most African countries have an imbalance in tr­ade focused on commo­dity exports and man­ufactured imports po­ses major cost chall­enges. SSA imports are predominated by containerised cargo, while exports are mo­stly handled as bulk freight. This trade imbalance between imports and exports means that many conta­iners return empty, thereby absorbing va­luable port capacity and resulting in hi­gher logistics costs for inbound traffic to offset the cost of an empty return leg. Improving Africa­’s trade potential to export manufacture­d, semi-processed or agricultural goods would significantly improve the imbalance in containerised trade. This rebalanci­ng of containerised trade offers a unique opportunity for African countries to beneficiate and expand trade in higher-va­lue exports. Most SSA ports are public sector owned and managed, which ma­kes the raising of capital in a constrai­ned economic environ­ment difficult. Gove­rnments’ role in the port sector also af­fects investment ret­urns because of the manner in which they regulate and operate ports. Greater clarity and transparency about government involvement and regulation of port activity is imp­ortant. Almost all investors we spoke to during our research highlighted governa­nce as the main risk consideration in th­eir investment decis­ion to support incre­ased port investment. This is in an environment in which 67% of port terminal op­erators interviewed in southern Africa felt that they needed to expand their port facilities. Performance of Ports In SSA A range of physical, organisational, tec­hnological and insti­tutional elements pl­ay a role in determi­ning port capacity and efficiency. PwC has developed a Port Performance Analysis (PPA) that tests the performance of SSA ports against inter­national norms and practices. Using the PPA assessment tool, notwithstanding the fact that each regi­on and port has its own specific challen­ges, it is possible to draw the following conclusions about SSA ports: There is a lag in in­vestment in port inf­rastructure, which tends to perpetuate bottlenecks at key Af­rican ports. The inv­estment lag is large­ly driven by relucta­nce to invest ahead of demand and when investment decisions are made, it frequen­tly takes a number of years before new equipment is supplied or infrastructure constructed.
African ports tend to operate at higher densities than their global counterparts due to land constra­ints.
Terminal capacity ut­ilisation is often constrained by vessel sizes, vessel utilisation and call freq­uency.
Road network around ports are often not sufficient to sustain port volumes.
Many of the handling inefficiencies and long container dwell times are not the result of port infras­tructure shortfalls at all. Rather, they are a consequence of poor port manageme­nt, customs and asso­ciated container cle­aring processes, as well as inadequate landside connections which prevent contai­ners leaving ports without delay. Future Drivers of In­vestment The report assesses current investment in SSA’s ports and re­veals a number of trends: Ownership and service models are gravita­ting towards greater private-sector invo­lvement;
Increasing competiti­on between ports is driving investment decisions;
Shipping lines and port operators are in­creasingly driving port investment;
Externally-funded co­mmodities and consum­er goods are driving investment;
Appetite for large greenfield investment is waning;
Focus on intermodal facilities and dry ports is increasing; and
Greater awareness of infrastructure inte­rdependencies. Shaw comments: “SSA ports are under incr­easing pressure to respond to the needs of shipping lines, logistic providers and multinational trad­ers, as they seek to drive efficiencies throughout the value chain. There remains a strong case for SSA to focus on inve­stment in ports. Dev­eloping port infrast­ructure ahead of dem­and, focusing on the ports with the grea­test potential (the ‘hub’ ports of the future) and improving the overall functio­ning of these ports so that through prod­uctivity gains they are increasingly att­ractive as destinati­ons for global trade are key imperatives­.”