 Abuja （Sundiata Post）-  Senator representing Adamawa North Senatorial District in the Senate, Mrs.  Binta Masi Garba, on Sunday narrated how all that she had were set ablaze by her biological father after she gave her life to Jesus Christ.  She spoke during a thanksgiving service organised to mark her 50th birthday at the Chapel of Praise International Church, Yola on Sunday.  Binta, who broke down in tears during the service, said God made it possible for her to become a cornerstone after the deprivation and rejection she suffered after accepting Jesus Christ as her Lord and Saviour.  She said, “I gave my life to Christ when I was in primary school. My father was infuriated and he burnt everything I had because of my decision to follow Christ. I suffered so much because of the name of Jesus. I would have been nothing if not for His grace. The rejected child, because of my faith, has become a cornerstone. I give glory to His name.”  In his remark, the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, called for prayers for leaders, particularly Christians holding various positions in the highest level of government in the country.  He specifically called for prayers for the Secretary to the Government of the Federation,  Boss Mustapha, the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Winifred Oyo-Ita and other Christian appointees in the administration of President Muhammed Buhari so that they could make the desired impact in government.  Osinbanjo said he believed that President Muhammadu Buhari had appointed some of the finest Christians in his government in order to bring change.  He however said that though himself, Mustapha and Winifred among a few others are very good Christians, he urged Christians to support them with prayers.  He said, “The truth of the matter is that in the government of today, we have some of the most erudite Christians, some of the best Christians occupying positions in government. Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, who is a pastor; the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Winifred Oyo-Ita and of course I, the Vice-President are all Christians.  “But it is not enough to have Christians in government like myself. It is never enough. If you look through the scriptures whether it was Joseph, Daniel or Esther, every person who made an impact in governance in the scripture that we see was supported by the prayers of the people of God.  “God is not moved unless we move His hands in the place of prayers. We are in a period in history when God wants to do something that is why some of us are in government. The opportunity must not be lost, your prayers to God will make that difference.”  The colourful church thanksgiving service was attended by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, Boss Mustapha, Senator Nelson Effiong, who represented the Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, and the Founder, Chapel of Praise Church International, Archbishop Fred Addo. (Punch)   