Bauchi   –    Some Federal roads in the North-East geo-political zone are in dire need of rehabilitation, according to a Survey carried out by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). Some stakeholders in Gombe, Adamawa, Borno, Bauchi and Jigawa, told NAN that considering the capital-intensive nature of some of the projects, the Federal Government has performed well in keeping the roads generally motorable, but that more needed to be done. They argued that the nine years of insurgency in the sub-region had resulted in serious damages to highways, bridges and culverts, hence the need to fast-track the rehabilitation of road infrastructure in the zone. Alhaji Usman Shuwa, Secretary to the Borno State Government, called on the Federal Government to rehabilitate the Maiduguri/Bama/Banki highway, to fast-track the resettlement of persons displaced by the Boko Haram insurgency in the state.
Shuwa, who made the call while briefing newsmen on the resettlement of displaced persons in Bama town of the state, said that the rehabilitation of the roads was necessary for the restoration of peace and sustainable social and economic development in the area. NAN reports that many roads, bridges and culverts in various parts of the state, had been destroyed by the insurgents. Some of the dilapidated roads included the Maiduguri/Bama/Banki, Bama/Gwoza/Madagali, Maiduguri/Dikwa/Gamboru, Maiduguri/Baga, Maiduguri/Gubio/Damasak, Maiduguri/Damboa/Biu/Yola, and Maiduguri/Damaturu. Some motorists interviewed by NAN decried the poor state of the roads and called for their urgent rehabilitation. Mr Nuhu Ahdamu, a commercial bus operator, said he spent much on the repair of his vehicle due to the nature of the roads. Also, another driver, Kamal Iliya, lamented the poor state of the Gombe/ Biu/Garkida road, adding that the situation had made the movement of goods difficult. Alhaji Amadu Musa, Secretary, Nigeria Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in Borno, said the rehabilitation of the roads were imperative for the restoration of peace, social and economic development in the north-east. Dependable sources at the Federal Ministry of Works, Power and Housing, as well as the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) in Borno, who did not want to be quoted, however, told NAN that rehabilitation work had commenced on some of the roads. They said a number of roads in the state would be rehabilitated this year. However, Mr Suleiman Mohammed, Officer in charge of FERMA in Gombe, said ongoing rehabilitation and reconstruction of federal roads in the state, had given a boost to Agriculture in the state. Mohammed told NAN that the exercise had made it easier for farmers to transport their farm produce from rural communities to the urban centres in the state. He said that because of this development, most people now engaged in commercial, as against subsistence farming. Mohammed said even food vendors were not left out as the road rehabilitation had paved way for some brisk businesses. He said that there were eight federal roads in the state and that those in bad conditions were receiving attention. “We have started rehabilitation of some roads and we have written a proposal for some, awaiting approval from the headquarters. “The roads we are proposing to commence work on are the Gombe/ Potiskum and Gombe/Bauchi roads,” he said. Mohammed noted, however, that FERMA was facing challenges of lack of funds, equipment and materials for the effective execution of the projects. The Head of FERMA in Adamawa, Mr Babangida Kawu, said his agency had rehabilitated over 100 km of Federal Roads in Adamawa between December 2017 and January 2018. “About 100 km of Federal Roads across Adamawa have been rehabilitated between December 2017 and January 2018. “The scope of work covered patching of potholes and the rebuilding of some dangerous culverts and bridges,’’ Kawu told NAN. He explained that presently, work was in progress for the complete reconstruction of the Numan/Cham, Yola/Mubi and Mararaba/Mubi/Gwoza federal roads, adding that the contracts were awarded in February 2017. Mohammed noted that Federal roads that were in very bad condition and needed urgent attention were the Yola/Fufore/Gurin, Mayo-Belwa/Jada/Ganye, Ganye/Sugu/Toungo, Garkida/Gombi (Phase II), Mayo-Belwa/Zing (Phase II), as well as Numan/Guyuk (Phase II). Also speaking on Federal roads in Gombe, Mrs Lilian Kayode, the Commissioner of Works, commended the efforts of the Federal Government on road projects in the state. Kayode explained that the projects, if completed, would boost the economy of the state and reduce its poverty rate. She, however, appealed to the Federal Government to speed up work on major roads like the Numan/Cham and Yola/Mubi. Commercial vehicle drivers who spoke on the road projects, however, complained of the slow spate of work and called on the Federal Government to prevail on the contractors to speed up work. NAN reports that two construction companies, AG Vision and the Chinese Geological Construction Company, are the major contractors handling the projects. In Bauchi, the Progress Officer of FERMA, Mr Augustine Ibrahim, said his agency rehabilitated three out of the 17 Federal Roads in the state through direct labour. Ibrahim said that very soon, two contractors would be mobilised to site to commence rehabilitation works on other Federal Roads in the state. On his part, Mr Adamu Gulma, Head of FERMA in Jigawa, said that the agency had rehabilitated 13 Federal roads covering 725km across the state. He explained that the roads were rehabilitated to boost socio- economic activities and save the lives and property of the people. According to him, FERMA has been engaging in the patching of potholes on highways across the state in the past three years. “We engage in the construction of culverts, as well as control of vegetation that pose threats to the highways. “Recently, we carried out vegetation control on pavements stretching from Kazaure to the Kano border; we also did same from Birnin Kudu to Ningi in Bauchi state,’’ Gulma said. He said the road from Sir Abubakar Link Road in the Dutse metropolis, as well as Tsamiya Bridge, close to a border town, were currently under rehabilitation. Gulma said that the agency had also mobilised its men for the rehabilitation of the road from Garki/Gumel/Malammadori/Hadejia in the state. He added that more roads and culverts in the state were slated for rehabilitation.