Abuja （Sundiata Post）- Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere, has insisted that Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, must resign from office for asking the International Criminal Court not to escalate its investigation against the Boko Haram sect.  The group, in a reaction by its spokesperson, Yinka Odumakin, on Friday, stated that Malami could not double as the country’s number one law officer and as Boko Haram defender.  The AGF had while hosting the new ICC President, Justice Chile Ebro-Osuji, in Abuja on Thursday, complained about the court’s investigation against Boko Haram and the Nigerian military, describing it as worrisome.  “Presently, the ICC has escalated the eight potential cases against Nigeria – six against the Boko Haram and two against the military – from the initial preliminary examination to preliminary investigation.  “This is worrisome, as Nigeria has demonstrated beyond doubt, and in absolute cooperation with the ICC, that it is willing and able and, as a matter of fact, it is indeed arresting, investigating and prosecuting anyone that commits an offence that falls within the Rome Statute of the ICC.  “The above being the case, Nigeria views the escalation of the eight potential cases as uncalled for in the circumstance,” Malami was quoted to have said.  But Odumakin, in his reaction, accused the AGF of turning his office into Boko Haram’s media department, stressing that Nigerians should be worried by the release of many top insurgents in recent times by the government.  “If the ICC is Investigating Boko Haram, are they investigating the north and by extension, the Federal Government of Nigeria? This could have been a Freudian slip, but since we have not seen a denial from Malami, it means he is no longer the AGF of Nigeria, he can’t be the nation’s AGF and be speaking on behalf of Boko Haram, he should therefore resign,” he stated.  He added, “For the Attorney General to turn his office to the media department of Boko Haram is almost unheard of and Nigerians should be worried about this.  “In recent times, we have seen notorious Boko Haram kingpins being set free by the courts and the government has released hundreds of Boko Haram into the system.”  Odumakin also cited the reported payment of £3m to the sect by the Federal Government for the release of Chibok schoolgirls, some of whom are still being held by the insurgents.  He said, “In 2013, the sect nominated the President as their negotiator, though he rejected the nomination, he was to later say any attack against Boko Haram was an attack against the north. Now, is what Malami doing now a continuation of that policy?” 