Enugu –  Dr Simon Agwale, a US-based Nigerian virologist has tasked the Federal Government to develop and produce vaccines locally to reduce financial burden in healthcare delivery in the country. Agwale, from Innovative Biotech, USA, made the appeal at the 12th Public Health Lecture Series of the Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria (AMLSN) on Friday, in Enugu. News Agecny of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the theme of the lecture was: “Vaccine Efficacy: Impact of Utilisation of Indigenous Microbial Strains in the Formulation and Production of Vaccines in Nigeria’’ He noted that only indigenously developed and mass produced vaccines could tackle most viral diseases like Lassa fever and Ebola fever. He decribed the two diseases as great threats to public health in the country. “We have developed Lassa fever and Ebola fever candidate vaccines, which needed its mass production but it is unfortunate that the authorities that should give it backing are not paying attention. “Daily, especially in the media, you hear them talk much after the ravaging impact of Lassa fever currently ravaging some parts of the country but no action has been taken to protect the citizenry. “Some of the viral diseases we have and suffer here are only peculiar to Nigeria or Africa, so you don’t expect it to the problems of the developed countries. “We must develop local capacity to deal with our peculiar health challenges just as China and India are today having scores of companies producing vaccines for local use and international export,’’ he said. He said that he had developed a hepatitis and HIV/AIDS candidate vaccines, which are currently at various stages of clinical test trails. “While presently the Typhoid fever vaccine I developed and partnered with an India firm for mass production is already in Nigeria for use by all. “When you take the Typhoid fever vaccine, you are protected from typhoid fever for live,’’ he said. He urged the media to assist researchers and virologists to display the information to the Nigerian public. He added that Nigeria had the best brains, but they needed funding support, as well as backing of the Federal Government. Earlier, the Acting Registrar of AMLSN, Mr Erhabor Tosan, noted that it was no longer news that the health system had remained under funded. “The threat of emerging diseases, communicable and non-communicable, has become even more pronounced and some of them appear to defy conventional remedies. “However, if we unite as members of this noble profession, there is no limit to what we can achieve. “Let us begin to look inwards and resolve to find local solutions to local problems,’’ Tosan said. The National President of AMLSN, Dr Bassey Bassey, also said that the lecture was to awaken laboratory scientists on the need to join in finding solutions to the health challenges in the country. “Our people, the Nigerian people are looking up to us for solutions and as an association we must live up to the expectations,’’ he said. (NAN)