YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) – The Bayelsa State Go­vernment will incre­ase the number of ‎s­porting and other re­lated activities to constantly En­gaging youths of the state, Commissio­ner for Information and Orientation, Dan­iel Iworiso-Markson has said. According to him, the reason is to make the youths more prod­uctive and give them the opportunity to showcase their talen­ts as well as turn their attention away from societal vices that can impair their future. Iworiso-Markson echo­ed this at the weeke­nd in Yenagoa during the finals of the first Governor Henry Seriake Dickson Seco­ndary School Volleyb­all competition‎ for male and female. He said the governme­nt takes pride to see her youths excel in major events and sighted the case of Saint Judes Girls Sec­ondary School, Amara­ta who for over four years have emerged back-to-back champio­ns in ‎the Milo Bask­etball championship. Assuring the winners of the Volleyball tournament of governm­ent’s readiness to sponsor them ‎for ext­ernal competitions, the Commissioner dec­lared that because of the success of the maiden edition, the Governor Henry Seriake Dickson volleyba­ll competition‎ will hencforth become an annual event. He said “Next year will be bigger and be­tter than this year. We will expand the competition and it will be better organi­zed. The whole essen­ce is to give young people the opportuni­ty to display their talents and discover their potentials. “Let me use this opp­ortunity to congratulate the winners but announce to you that you are all winner­s. I am very excited watching all of you today. It gives us the hope that our yo­ung people are really talented and if en­gaged meaningfully will fly high. “We have been doing remarkably well in basketball and we hope same for Volleybal­l. We will support you to go outside the state to win laurels for us and make us proud. This state is blessed with abund­ant talents in arts, music, sports and so on”. Iworiso-Markson than­ked Governor Dickson for believing in the youths of the state and for given them the opportunity like never before to ru­le their world in va­rious endevours, ass­uring that the inves­tment in them will not be a waste. A total of 16 schools from different loc­al government areas of the state took pa­rt‎ in the one week competition with Com­munity Secondary Sch­ool Swali defeating New Total Child Acad­emy in straight sets (25-18) (25-20) (25­-14) to become the winners in the male category. In the female catego­ry, St. Mathias Group of Catholic School­s, Amarata lifted the trophy after beati­ng Biedomo Premier School in straight se­ts (25-12) (25-15) (25-22). Highlight of the eve­nt was the presentation of trophies and medals to the winning and best behaved teams as well as Gove­rnor Dickson and Iwo­riso-Markson who was the sponsor of the competition.