By Rabiu Sani Maiduguri –  The Borno State Government on Saturday began the phased resettlement of 120,000 persons displaced by Boko Haram insurgency in Bama. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that residents of Bama, hitherto, a commercial hub, were among the over one million people displaced by insurgency. They are currently taking shelter at Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps and host communities in Maiduguri. The Federal Government also instituted a Bama Initiative, to fast track reconstruction activities of the town in view of the large scale damage caused by the insurgency. Speaking at the inauguration exercise at Dalori Camp in Maiduguri, Gov. Kashim Shettima said it would enable the affected families return to their homes and resume their normal lives. He explained that the state government had rehabilitated and reconstructed residential homes, police posts, schools, clinics and palaces. Others included offices, markets and other public structures as well as provision of electricity and water supply facilities. Shettima said that the projects were executed under the Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement programme initiated by his administration. He noted that the state government in collaboration with the Nigeria Armed Forces, police and other partners had adopted proactive measures to secure the settlement. The governor added that the returnees would be screened to enhance security and provided with other support services. “Right now our people are in Bama to safeguard life and property and we are talking with security agencies that are doing their utmost best; we will continue to support them to secure the state,” he said. Also, Alhaji Abba Jatau, the Chairman of the Relocation and Resettlement Committee, had earlier told newsmen that about 11,000 houses were reconstructed in Bama town. Jatau disclosed that over 10,000 persons were screened and ready for resettlement in the re-built Bama town under the first phase of the exercise. “There are over 120,000 displaced persons from Bama currently at Dalori, Farm Centre and NYSC IDP camps, and also host community in Maiduguri. “The state government has provided 50 buses to ease transportation and facilitate smooth resettlement exercise,” he said. (NAN)