By Muhammad Nasir Bello  Wamakko    –      No fewer than 461 beneficiaries in Wamakko and Gumbi District of Sokoto State have received N 1.22 million and 339 bags of millet from the state Zakkat and Endowment Commission.
The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that N1 million and 204 bags of millet went to 304 beneficiaries in Wamakko district, while 57 got 35 bags of millet and N220,000 in Gumbi district.
The Commission’s Chairman, Malam Lawal Maidoki, made this known on Thursday after the distribution of the Zakkat (poor dues) in the two districts of Wamakko Local Government Area the state.
Maidoki urged the Zakkat committees in the districts to strive towards sustaining the gesture, saying the initiative would go a long way to ease the hardship faced by the needy in the state.
“As individuals, we appreciate your commitment and urged you to sustain the tempo. For, it is only Allah that will reward the good deeds of mankind, “ he said.
He also urged the Islamic scholars in the two district to support the commission’s efforts by sensitising rich Muslims to the importance of Zakkat and benefits of endowment activities.
Maidoki, however deplored street begging, saying it has no basis in Islam.
He further urged small and big time farmers and wealthy individuals to pay up their Zakkat correctly and in good time to enable the needy benefit from the proceeds.
The chairman gave assurance that the commission will continue to sensitise and encourage relevant stakeholders to support its effort at reviving the collection of Zakkat and endowment in the state.
Also speaking, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, restated the need for individuals to ensure the success of the initiative by paying their Zakkat,and called on the beneficiaries to always pray for those who gave them succour.
Sultan Abubakar, who was represented by the District Head of Hamma-Ali, Alhaji Muhammadu Bello, commended the districts’ efforts at improving the size of Zakkat collections being distributed to the needy in the area.
In their separate remarks, the District Heads of Wamakko and Gumbi, Alhaji Salihu Barade and Alhaji Ismail Abdulkadir, commended the commission for the success recorded so far.