By Felicia Imohimi Abuja –  The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) says it will support the Federal Government’s commitment to make schools safer and more resilient to attack. Mohamed Fall, UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. Fall, who condemned the abduction of school children in the northeast, noted that the government was committed to implementing the `Safe Schools Declaration’. He said that the declaration was aimed at protecting schools and universities from violence, attack and conflict. “Nigerian authorities have made a commitment to make schools safer and more resilient to attack, and UNICEF stands with them to implement the Safe Schools Declaration. “Nigeria commits to protecting schools and universities from violence,’’ he said. He, however, appealed for an end to attacks on schools and all grave violations of children’s rights in the country. UNICEF representative, however, noted that no fewer than 1,000 children have been abducted by Boko Haram in north east since 2013 including the 276 abducted Chibok Secondary School girls. According to him, over 100 of the girls are yet to be returned to their families four years after the tragic incident however, called for their immediate release. “The four-year anniversary of the Chibok abduction reminds us that children in the north-eastern of Nigeria continue to come under attack at a shocking scale. “They are consistently targeted and exposed to brutal violence in their homes, schools and public places. “The recent attack on a school in Dapchi in which five girls lost their lives is just the latest indication that there are few safe spaces left for children in the northeast. Not even schools are spared from violence. “These repeated attacks against children in schools are unconscionable. Children have the right to education and protection and the classroom must be a place where they are safe from harm.” he said. Fall said that no fewer than 2,295 teachers have been killed and more than 1,400 schools have been destroyed since the commencement of Boko Haram insurgency in the northeast about nine years ago. According to him, most of these schools have not reopened because of extensive damage or ongoing insecurity in the area. (NAN)