By Johnson Eyiangho Abuja –  The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, on Thursday re-assured President Muhammadu Buhari of the unflinching loyalty of the Army to him and commitment to the defence of the nation’s democratic government. Buratai gave the commitment at the end of the four-day 2018 first quarter Chief of Army Staff Conference in Abuja. Represented by Maj.-Gen. Rasheed Yusuf, the Chief of Policy and Plans, Buratai also assured that the army would work with other security agencies to make the country safer for socio-economic development. He also promised that the army would remain apolitical and professionally responsive in the discharge of its constitutional responsibilities. The chief of army staff assured Nigerians that the army would remain resolute in tackling the security challenges facing the country. “I also want to reiterate that the Nigerian army will continue to respect human rights as we decisively deal with security threats facing the country,” he said. He said the conference reviewed ongoing operations and exercises such as `Operation Lafiya Dole’ and `Ayem Akpatuma’. “We have identified our challenges and lessons learnt in the conduct of these operations and exercises, as well as other operational, administrative and logistics issues in the army. “While some of these issues have been appropriately addressed in this conference, I assure that those that require strategic consideration will be given due attention,’’ the chief of army staff said. He noted that the three documents he launched at the conclusion of the conference formed the basis for training and leadership development of the army standards and support products. One of the documents is the policy directive on the Nigerian army comprehensive programme to improve compliance with domestic and international laws guiding conduct of operations. The rest are: directive on standing rules of engagement and standing rules for the use of force and policy directive on arrest, detention and interrogation. (NAN)