By Douglas Okoro Afikpo (Ebonyi)  –   The National Orientation Agency (NOA), on Friday launched a security sensitisation and reorientation campaign against political thuggery, kidnapping, drug addiction and other social vices in Ebonyi, ahead of the 2019 elections. The campaign launched in Afikpo, headquarters of Afikpo North Local Government Area, attracted dignitaries from all walks of live, including traditional rulers, security agencies and religious organisations. The Director of the Agency in Ebonyi, Dr Emma Abah, represented by Mr Theophilous Nwakpor, an Assistant Director, said that the sensitisation campaign became imperative as the 2019 election year draws nearer. He said that the campaign was embarked upon by the Agency to create needed awareness among youths and other vulnerable groups on the dangers of getting involved in unwholesome activities before, during and after the elections. He explained that youths who engaged in political thuggery and other social vices, were usually under the influence of drugs and urged youths to shun drug abuse and its addiction. The NOA director called on parents to imbibe positive morals in their children to enable them grow into responsible citizens. He expressed dismay that Nigeria’s elections were usually characterised by thuggery, killings and kidnapping of political opponents usually by thugs sponsored by opponents. He called for change of attitude and ethical reorientation of youths that engaged in the anti- social behaviours. Abah decried kidnapping, noting that most kidnappers operate under the influence of drugs. “The activities of these unscrupulous members of the society have caused hardship and pains to their victims and their families. “We have all been witnesses to the ravaging nature of the ills caused to our society by these misguided youths. “We will not cross our hands while our society gets destroyed by our youths acting under the influence of drugs. “Security is everybody’s business, hence we have to join hands with government to solve the problem,” he said. The NOA boss appealed to traditional rulers, community leaders, town union executives, the clergy and other stakeholders to rise up to the challenges of insecurity. ” This is a wake up call to all and sundry, to let the youths know that political thuggery is risky business and fraught with dangers. “Thugs are merely used by politicians for their selfish interest and discarded after they have been maximally and effectively used to thwart the will of the people,” he added. Abah further said that the security sensitisation campaign was aimed among other things, to create awareness on the need for Nigerians to be security consciousness, to educate the people on consequences of drug abuse and political thuggery. He said that the programme would further strengthen and sustain democracy as well as promote good governance as well as reduce incidences of kidnapping in the country. Meanwhile, Chairman, Afikpo North Local Government Council, Mr Ogbonnaya Oko-Eyum, in a remark commended the Agency and assured that his government would partner NOA in stepping down the campaign to rural communities. The chairman, represented by the Vice Chairman of the Council, Mrs Patricia Obila, noted that political thuggery, drug abuse and kidnapping remained worrisome menace that must be collectively fought. He charged parents, traditional rulers, youths and everybody to get involved in the war against social vices. “Political thuggery, drug abuse and kidnapping are evil and we must urge our youths not to indulge in these unholy activities, ” Oko-Eyum said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the security sensitisation programme featured paper presentations by the officials of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency, and the Nigerian Police. NAN also reports that the security sensitisation campaign will take place in all the 13 local government areas of Ebonyi. (NAN)