By Ishaq Zaki Gusau –   The Zamfara state police command on Wednesday inaugurated 22 new executives members of the state Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) as part of its efforts to improve relationship with the general public. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the inauguration was performed by the state Commissioner of police, Mr Kenneth Ebrimson. Ebrimson said the PCRC was established by the Nigerian Police Force to strengthen its relationship with the general public. “Since its establishment it has been providing good support to us.”We are ready to partner with you and all other stakeholders, “he said. He urged new executives of the committee to work inline with the constitution of the committee in order to work according to law and order. In his remark, the representative of the state government, Alhaji Sanusi Rikiji, described the PCRC as major stakeholder that improve the relationship between the security agencies and the general public. Rikiji who is the Speaker of the state house of assembly urged the committee to work towards addressing the security challenges facing the state. “As we all know, the we have been facing security challenges which effected the development of this state and this insecurity is responsible for the hardship among our people. “You should work hard up to your responsibility to providing useful information to police and other security agencies. “We know your efforts in promoting security activities in the state, we will continue to support you in this regard”, he said. In his remark, the new chairman of the committee, Alhaji Bello Dankande assured that the committee would justify the confidence reposed in it. In his remark, the National Chairman PCRC, Alhaji Farouk Abdullahi-Maiyama condoled with the state government over the recent banditry activities that resulted in the death of several people.. NAN reports that during the inauguration N5.5 million was raised by the politicians, well-meaning individuals and organisations as donations to the committee. (NAN)