Abuja （Sundiata Post）-  All Progressives Congress disclosed said it has postponed its congresses and national convention scheduled to start next month due to the Ramadan fast.  National Publicity Secretary of the party,  Bolaji Abdulahi, disclosed this while addressing journalists after the meeting of the National Working Committee and the governors of the APC on Wednesday.  According to THISDAY, Bolaji Abdulahi, informed that the national convention earlier fixed for May 14 would now hold at a later date to be determined by the National Working Committee, adding that the leadership has been mandated to review the timetable to cater for certain issues that have cropped up.  He said with the review, there was a possibility that the congresses and national convention may be shifted in view of the observations made by some of the governors that the timetable was too tight and made no room for errors.  The APC spokeman also said some of the governors brought the issue of the Muslim fast which will come up soon, adding that the meeting was called to emphasise to the state governors the need to ensure that congresses were held in a very transparent manner.  He said; “We are aware that some governors have been making statements which we believe are giving the impression that we don’t intend to hold congresses in particular states.  “So the meeting was to emphasise to those governors that we want congresses in a very transparent manner and to ensure that the processes are free and fair.”  The APC spokesman said one of the major concerns of the party at the beginning was that they should do everything possible to avoid rancour that could be generated as a result of the congresses.  “It was agreed that one of the major ways of avoiding that rancour is to ensure that the congresses are transparent to the majority of the people,” he said.  On the renewed interest by the governors to influence committee’s list, Abdulahi said the National Chairman, Chief John Odigie Oyegun, and the NWC rejected it, insisting that it is the constitutional right of the leadership to decide who would come to their states to conduct the congresses.  “We made it clear to them that this is a constitutional matter and the constitution of the APC imposes the power to constitute the committees on the NWC only and that by Friday (today), the list of the congress committee members will be ready.  “There was also observation on the side of the governors about the timetable for the congresses and convention and the observation was that the timetable was too closely packed and that it does not leave much room for errors.  “The observation was that the timetable as currently constituted was determined because of the Ramadan. We want to be sensitive to the feelings of Muslims who will be fasting during Ramadan and we wanted to, as much as possible, avoid conducting any political activity during the period of Ramadan.  “There were other observations and so, there is the possibility that the timetable may be reviewed. That is not decided yet, but it was agreed that the NWC will take a second look at the timetable and see the possibility for adjustment because there are other issues,” he said.  When asked if the meeting discussed the endorsement of Oshiomhole by President Buhari, Abdulahi said: “What we were told at the meeting was that the president had a meeting with some governors and they asked to know who he wanted to support, and I think that he told them his preference. But that has nothing to do with the meeting we had today.”  On whether the NWC would back Oyegun or stand with the president, he said: “I don’t think that is a fair question to ask me because you will be asking me for my personal opinion and I am not here to give you my personal opinion.  “What I can tell you is that Oyegun will make his position known within the next couple of days whether he is going to contest the chairmanship or not.”  He said the president is a party member and has the right to have his preferences, adding that he did not tell anyone to support his choice. “The consultation he had with these governors was a private conversation. He did not address a press conference to say this is the person I want.  “So, if those individuals he confided in felt it was necessary for them to make the position public, I don’t think it is fair for us to hold the president responsible for this. I don’t think he has foreclosed anything or that he has said this is the way everyone must go.” 