By Kabir Muhammad Abuja –   The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Bello, has said that only healthy livestock safe for human consumption are available in markets within the territory Bello made the statement while inaugurating the 2018 Mass Vaccination and Treatment exercise for livestock in the FCT on Wednesday in Abuja. According to him, the exercise was part of the efforts of the FCT Administration at ensuring food safety and preventing outbreak and spread of livestock borne diseases in the territory. He reiterated the commitment of the FCT administration to ensuring that only healthy livestock safe for human consumption were available in the markets within the FCT. “The FCTA through the Agriculture Secretariat has been carrying out various animal health programmes such as the campaign against Avian influenza, the vaccination of sheep and goat against goat catarrh. “This exercise is a preventive measure to protect livestock from contacting diseases; it will be carried out all through the nooks and crannies of the FCT where we have cattle, sheep and goats. He urged livestock owners in the FCT to take advantage of the exercise by bringing their cattle, goats and sheep for the vaccination. Bello noted that the vaccination would enable the livestock to breed healthier livestock that would have prolonged life, produce more milk and healthier offspring. He commended the Area Councils for their support and assured them of his passion for the agriculture sector. The minister said he has given approval for the provision of all the necessary logistics toward the success of the exercise and ensure that no livestock was left out in the exercise. The Chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council, Alhaji Mustapha Danze, assured the minister that the council would mobilise its agricultural officers to work and provide support toward the success of the exercise. Also, the Head of Veterinary Services in the Agricultural Secretariat, Dr Regina Adulugba, reminded the Fulani and other stakeholders in the livestock business on the importance of the exercise. The minister was represented at the ceremony held at FCT Veterinary Clinic, Gwagwalada, by the Secretary for Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS) in the FCT Administration, Nzekwe Ifeanyichukwu. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that highpoint of the occasion was the administering of vaccines on some cattle by the representative of the FCT Minister as well as the Gwagwalada Area Council Chairman. (NAN)