By: Oluwaseyi Oduneye-Ogunwomoju  Ibadan   –      Welson Ebikewenimo, 2018 Commonwealth bronze medalist, and gold medalist Odunayo Adekuoroye, on Friday commended Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State for hosting and rewarding Team Nigeria Wrestlers in Yenegoa. The wrestlers in separate interviews told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on telephone from Ibadan that they appreciated the governor’s kind gesture. Ebikewenimo, who won silver at the 2010 and 2014 Commonwealth Games, said the hosting of the wrestlers by the governor was a motivation to them, hence the governor deserved some accolades. He said the federation had been fantastic for over five years with outstanding performances at the World Championships, African Championships and other competitions preceding the Commonwealth Games. The Bayelsa-born wrestler said Gov. Dickson had justified his place in history as a sports loving governor, most especially to the Nigeria Wrestling Federation. “I’m proud to be associated with my governor, he recognised us after the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Scotland and now he has done same thing again. “I think the governor deserves some accolades. Over 15 wrestlers are employed under the Bayelsa State Government. “This alone tells the world that wrestling is part of the Niger Delta. “Every week, most local government organise traditional wrestling and most of us take part in this historic event to keep fit and it’s supported by the governor himself,” Ebikewenimo said. He also commended the relentless efforts of the
President of Nigeria Wrestling Federation, Daniel Igali, for the immense support for wrestling team and his promise to make the country proud subsequently. Two times Commonwealth Champion, Adekuoroye, said the act exhibited by Gov. Dickson showed him as a lover of wrestling. “His Excellency Seriake Henry Dickson the Governor of Bayelsa State thank you sir, I am completely overwhelmed”. “It really showed how much you love and care for sports people and youth in general, I greatly appreciate,” the Olympian said. NAN reports that each gold medalist got N1.5 million, silver medalist got N1million, while the bronze medalist got N 700,000.
The wrestlers who failed to win a medal were not left out as they got N500, 000 naira, while the coaching crew got N1million each.