By Akeem Abas Ibadan –   A former governor of Oyo State, Adebayo Alao-Akala, and some lawmakers on Friday condoled with Gov. Abiola Ajimobi and the people of Oyo State over the death of Hon. Michael Adeyemo, the Speaker of the state House of Assembly. They expressed their condolences in separate statements made available to the News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) in Ibadan on Friday. Alao-Akala said the news of Adeyemo’s death came to him as a rude shock. He described Adeyemo as a good leader who brought members of the Assembly together to make the state peaceful and governance easy for Ajimobi. “Though painful, but Adeyemo’s death should be a lesson to all of us. Only God knows what will happen the next moment. We should all do good and move closer to our creator,” he said. The former governor prayed for the repose of the soul of the deceased and for God to give the family, Ibarapa people and the people of the state the fortitude to bear the loss. Sen. Abdulfatai Buhari, the Chairman, Senate Committee on ICT and Cyber crime, also commiserated with Ajimobi, the State Assembly and the entire people of the state over Adeyemo’s death. Buhari (APC-Oyo North) described Adeyemo’s death as rude, shocking and devastating, adding that death was inevitable for all mortals. “He was a good and humble man. His peace-loving character is evident in his leadership style and relationship with other arms of the government,’’ he said. The lawmaker called on God to grant his children, relatives as well as extended and political family the fortitude to bear the loss. Buhari also postponed the inauguration of his projects scheduled to hold on Saturday as a mark of honour for the late speaker. Hon. Abiodun Olasupo(APC-Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa) and Hon. Temitope Olatoye(APC-Lagelu/Akinyele) said Adeyemo’s death was an irreparable loss. The duo in their separate statements, said the incident was shocking and unbelievable, adding that Adeyemo was a young promising politician. The Nigeria Union of Journalists(NUJ), Oyo State Council, also expressed shock over the sudden death of Adeyemo, saying he died at his prime. The NUJ stated that Adeyemo’s death was worrisome, adding it came on the heels of the clamour for power shift to the youths from the older generation. The union commiserated with Ajimobi, members of the State Assembly as well as the immediate family and parents of the late Speaker. It also commiserated with Ibarapa people and the state, praying God to grant the wife, children and parents the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. Adeyemo, who died on Friday, was aged 47. (NAN)