By Zubairu Idris Katsina –   The Katsina State Government is providing 125,000 litres of diesel to the state Water Board monthly as part of renewed effort to enhance urban water supply in the state. Alhaji Babangida Abubakar, the Managing Director of the state water Board, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Katsina on Wednesday. He said that the state has six urban water supply schemes which include Ajiwa, which supplies water to Katsina metropolis and environs; Daura, Dutsin-ma, Jibia, Funtua and Malumfashi. The managing director said the measure was necessary in order to ensure constant power supply to the schemes for effective operations. “When the administration of Gov. Masari came on board, the schemes relied heavily on electricity supply from the power distribution company to operate. “So, majority of the residents get tap water only if there is electricity from the power distribution company. “The government viewed it necessary to provide alternative source of power, to ensure people get water all the time. “That informed the decision to purchase 125,000 litres of diesel monthly, for effective operations of the schemes,’’ he said. He said that the government also rehabilitated and upgraded the dams that supplied water to some of the schemes, and installed modern facilities to enable them to meet the current demand. According to him, the schemes now operate for about 23 hours daily on the average. “We pump water from these schemes for between 15 and 23 hours; though we do rationing in some highly populated areas, particularly in the metropolis,’’ he said. Abubakar noted that Katsina is among the states where residents pay least water bills in the country. According to him, houses with single tap pay only N550 per month while those with water system toilets pay N1,600; and houses with water systems and garden pay only N19,000 per month. The managing director assured that the state government would continue to provide the needed support to ensure steady water supply to residents in the state, because “water supply is one of its top priorities”. Abubakar, therefore, urged residents in the state to continue to support the administration’s efforts in improving the living conditions of the people. .(NAN)