KIM Jong-un has reportedly promised to give up his nuclear weapons if the United States promises not to invade or attack. Mr Kim told South Korean President Moon Jae-in at their historic summit on Friday that he would give up his nuclear arsenal if the US committed to a formal end to the Korean War and pledged not to attack. Mr Kim also vowed during his meeting with Mr Moon to shut down the North’s nuclear test site in May and disclose the process to experts and journalists from South Korea and the United States, Seoul’s presidential office said. While there are lingering questions about whether North Korea will ever decide to fully relinquish its nukes as it heads into negotiations with the US, Mr Kim’s comments amount to the North’s most specific acknowledgment yet that “denuclearisation” would constitute surrendering its weapons. US national security adviser John Bolton reacted coolly to word that Mr Kim would abandon his weapons if the United States pledged not to invade. Asked on CBS’ Face the Nation whether the US would make such a promise, Mr Bolton said: “Well, we’ve heard this before. This is — the North Korean propaganda playbook is an infinitely rich resource. ‘What we want to see from them is evidence that it’s real and not just rhetoric.” Seoul officials, who have shuttled between Pyongyang and Washington to broker talks between Mr Kim and US President Donald Trump that are expected in May or June, said Mr Kim had expressed genuine interest in dealing away his nuclear weapons. However, there has been scepticism because for decades North Korea has been pushing a concept of “denuclearisation” that bears no resemblance to the American definition. The North has long vowed to pursue nuclear development unless Washington removes its 28,500 troops from South Korea and the nuclear umbrella defending South Korea and Japan. During their summit at a truce village on the border, Mr Moon and Mr Kim promised to work toward the “complete denuclearisation” of the Korean Peninsula but made no references to verification or timetables. Mr Kim also expressed optimism about his meeting with Mr Trump, Mr Moon’s spokesman Yoon Young-chan said. “Once we start talking, the United States will know that I am not a person to launch nuclear weapons at South Korea, the Pacific or the United States,” Mr Kim said, according to Mr Yoon. He also quoted Mr Kim as saying: “If we maintain frequent meetings and build trust with the United States and receive promises for an end to the war and a non-aggression treaty, then why would we need to live in difficulty by keeping our nuclear weapons?”