By Mohammed Nur Kano –  Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State on Wednesday said the first civilian Governor of the state, late Abubakar Rimi, contributed immensely to the freedom of the downtrodden. ‎Ganduje said this at the 8th Abubakar Rimi Memorial Lecture in Kano. Represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, the governor described late Rimi as “astute ‎administrator, prudent manager of resources and a leader with foresight. “Late Rimi was a selfless, modest, intellectual and courageous leader, a democrat, a revolutionary leader with foresight and sincere to a purpose.” The governor said Rimi was an ideological yet practical politician who came to limelight when he contested and won the Kano State governorship election on the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) in 1979, saying PRP could be seen as replica of the present All Progressives Congress (APC). He pointed out that PRP had its coinage and ideology ‎laid by Rimi, Lateef Jakande and Late Bola Ige in the 1980s. Ganduje said Abubakar Rimi was a pioneering legend who would remain relevant in the footprints of Nigeria’s political history. He recalled that the late governor introduced adult and mass literacy programme through Agency for Mass Education, Science and Technical Schools Board and Primary Education Board. Others were Rural Electrification Board and City Television now Abubakar Rimi Television and Truimph Publishing company. He urged leaders in the country to emulate the selfless and exemplary leadership style of the late elder statesman. ‎He also called on Nigerians, especially politicians, to imbibe Rimi’s enduring virtues as one of the most outstanding and memorable legends of Nigerian politics. Former Governor of Jigawa, Sule Lamido‎, described the late politician as selfless and exemplary leader. He said Rimi was a patriotic Nigerian who contributed greatly toward the political development of the country. He added that the late politician fought for the freedom of the common man. The Emir of Gumel, Malam Ahmed Sani, ‎prayed for the soul of the deceased politician and urged Nigerians to emulate him. (NAN)