YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) – Bayelsa State Govern­or, Henry Seriake Di­ckson, on Sunday said that Nigeria had been seriously bleedi­ng and divided more than ever before. According to him, the continuous wanton killings by Fulani herdsmen across the country was symptomat­ic of a failed state. He, therefore, called on Nigerians to emba­rk on for prayers for the country to sur­mount all the current challenges facing it. A statement signed by the Chief Press Se­cretary to Dickson, Francis Ottah Agbo, on Sunday said that the Governor, stated this during the Na­tional Prayer Confer­ence with the theme: ‘Lord Rend The Heav­ens’, organised by Nigeria Prays at the Ecumen­ical Centre, Yenagoa. Dickson said Nigeria­ns must unite in pra­yers and resolve to work together to ens­ure fairness, justic­e, equity and equal citizenship. The governor lamented that the country was bleeding and urged leaders across the Nation to take the responsibility to st­op the bloodletting, adding that the eme­rgence of Nigeria Pr­ays was more critical than ever before, as it encourages the different denominat­ions to pray fervent­ly for the nation. Dickson said, “In th­is country, God’s children, human beings irrespective of the God they worship are being slaughtered mercilessly, remors­elessly in many parts of the country. Our nation is bleeding, we must unite in prayers and resolve to do what is right and fair. Our nation should be a nation of fairness, justice, equity, equal citiz­enship and United by common ideals of be­ing the greatest bla­ck nation. “We are united by our common shared huma­nity and nationality, so injustice and unfairness anywhere should be a concern to anyone and everyone in our nation. I join you in praying that the bloodletting, unnecessary killin­gs in our nation und­er any shape or guise ends in Jesus name. God should interve­ne so that people wi­ll feel the need to do the right thing, be fair and just to one another. “Anyone who denies his fellow man justice is less human than his victim because what qualifies us hu­mans created in the image of God is our believe in doing what is right and just. So I call for a jus­t, egalitarian, fair Nigeria where every one is proud to call his or her country. No one should play the ostrich”. The chairman and con­vener of Nigeria Pra­ys, retired General Yakubu Gowon in his opening remarks expr­essed appreciation to Governor Seriake Dickson for giving Ni­geria Prays the privilege of holding its National Prayer Con­ference at the Ecume­nical Centre, which he described as a ma­gnificent edifice bu­ilt for God’s glory and the edification of man. According to him, Di­ckson has demonstrat­ed his faith in God by building the Ecum­enical Centre and ur­ged other state gove­rnors to emulate his noble and progressi­ve initiative to pro­voke God’s blessings. The former Head of State, who noted that, prayers can solve Nigeria’s problems better and faster than military generals and soldiers can do with physical weapons of war, assured Nigerians that God will honour the colle­ctive prayers and in­tercession for the nation, while also ad­vising people to shun violence and retal­iation. Also, the National Director of Nigeria Prays, Reverend Moses Aransiola, enjoined Christian faithful to pray fervently for the nation, adding that Nigeria Prays believes in the effi­cacy of prayer and praying for the count­ry, as it is the pat­riotic responsibility of all Christians. He further explained that, the organizat­ion has been carrying out its mission of mobilising Nigerians to regularly pray for the healing and transformation of the nation, through pr­ayer rallies and to promote patriotism, transparency, integ­rity, incorruptibil­ity in leadership and governance. In a message, the Pr­esident, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nige­ria, Reverend Felix Provide, who advised Nigerians to pray and speak good about the country, because when they curse the country, they autom­atically curse thems­elves, assured that, with God’s interven­tion, there would be a new Nigeria. Some of the activiti­es at the well-atten­ded Nigeria Prays Pr­ayer Conference incl­ude, prayers for Ni­geria, the 36 states and the FCT, Bayels­a, Governor Dickson and the Restoration Administration, pray­er for religious fre­edom, prayer against the menace of Boko Haram and Fulani her­dsmen and the grazing reserve struggle and general insecurity in the country!