By Joan Nwagwu  Abuja –   Mrs Ibukun Odusote, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, has urged labour unions to focus on the general welfare of its members rather than concentrating on festive oriented benefits. Odusote said this in a statement signed by Mr Samuel Olowookere, Director, Press in the Ministry and made available to newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja. She made the call during the inauguration of the newly elected executives of the Association of Senior Civil Servant of Nigeria of the ministry. “I want to charge the new team to work hard and ensure that it’s not just about rice and vegetable oil welfare. ”But that capacity development of staff are looked into as well as come up with idea that will help management to achieve what will help the ministry in carrying out its mandate,” she said. Odusote also stressed the importance of social dialogue and collective bargaining as the basis of agitation and negotiation in industrial relations. She added: ”I want to plead with the newly inaugurated executives that we emphasise the use of social dialogue and tact in negotiation and agitations. ”When labour leaders act in collective interest and not for personal gains, putting into consideration national development then workers welfare will be paramount.” The Permanent Secretary, further revealed that her interaction with the union chapter in the ministry has been quite impressive. “May be it’s because they have to be an example to other chapter unions as a custodian of labour laws, this is a reflection of the kind of staff that we have in the ministry.” Mr Isaac Ojemhenke, representatives of the national body of the union commended the management of the ministry for its understanding on the right of workers. Ojemhenke noted that, this explain why industrial peace and harmony pervaded the ministry to the admiration of other ministries. He added that the sssociation have higher hope that this mutual relationship would continue in the ministry. Ojemhenke urged the management to extend the same mutual working relationship it extended to the immediate past executives to the new union leaders. Mr Uzo Agu, the newly elected Chairman of the association affirmed that his election was a call to service. Agu commended the management of the ministry for providing enabling working environment for members of staff and pledge to continue with the legacy of the immediate past executive. ”We appreciate the funding challenges of the ministry but that notwithstanding the management has been able to consider our plight by ensuring that the little that is due to us is giving to us. ”We will build on the achievements of the past executives and continue to do our best to put a smile on your faces,” he pledged.(NAN)