By Solomon Asowata  Lagos   –    The presidency has lauded the efforts of Nigerian carrier, Air Peace and Foundation for Ethnic Harmony in Nigeria (FEHN) for their campaign against gender-based violence in the country. The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, made the commendation at the National Conference on Sexual and Gender Based Violence Response in Nigeria in Abuja on Thursday, according to a statement. Osinbajo expressed happiness that the Air Peace was on board the campaign to protect women, children and other vulnerable members of the society from violence. He, however, presented a joint award to FEHN and Air Peace for their partnership with the “government and people of Nigeria on gender based violence.” The award was received by the Chief Operating Officer of Air Peace, Mrs Oluwatoyin Olajide. She pledged that the airline and its’ not-for-profit organisation, FEHN would continue to seek ways to support the federal government in its projects aimed at protecting vulnerable members of the society. Mrs Motunrayo Boladale, the Assistant Procurement Manager of FEHN, lauded the government for its commitment to protecting the rights of women and children. Boladele called for strategic action against gender-based violence, stressing that FEHN and AIr Peace were battling the scourge through training and empowerment of women. She said, “the reality of gender-based violence in this age is one that continues to wear frail not only the societal fabric of the African continent, but also the entire world. “Unfortunately, in recent years the trajectory of cases of domestic violence, sexual exploitation, early marriage and rape of minors in Nigeria has become rather alarming. “Sadly, majority of the victims operate in such vulnerable state that there is the possibility of a recurrence.’’ According to her, as conflict reconciliation experts, FEHN understands that one of the most effective ways to curb this growing menace is basically the activation of practical proactive measures. “One of the main reasons our sister company, Air Peace Ltd. was floated is to create employment. It is heartwarming to know that we have several women gainfully employed by Air Peace. “In fact, most of our managers are women, a mark of the dedication of our chairman, Dr Allen Onyema, to the empowerment of women.
“We strongly believe that as we all join hands individually and collectively to combat gender-based violence, the lasting success we seek will be ours,” Boladale said.