By Felix Ugboja The Federal Ministry of Communications, in partnership with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has tasked government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) to take advantage of the new media, in order to shape their narrative and help reduce fake news. This was made known in a national social media retreat held on Tuesday at the NAF Conference Centre, Abuja. The retreat with the theme, ‘’Social Media for Good Governance,’’ was attended by a cross section of stakeholders, especially those in different levels of governments from different parts of the country. Speaking on behalf of the Ministry of Communications, the Minister, Dr Adebayo Shittu said that the essence of the retreat is to inform more people on how social media and its tools improve good governance. He said that the retreat was imperative because there is a realisation that social media, in spite of its usefulness can be abused and misused. He said: ‘’Social media has changed person to person communication and government communication. Given the importance of new media in modern communication, it is imperative for government to leverage on it. We have to ask what this means for government and democracy? ‘’Social media can be helpful to government and the people through feedbacks, access to government and its officials, creating new ways of working in government. ‘’It helps people identify pitfalls of government. We are using it therefore for good governance. This retreat is to share information on recent researches relating to effective usage of social media in Nigeria. The youth are the most active on social media, and their impact can be felt. From the Arab Spring, Brexit and the US election, we could see how young people and social media shape society. With our young population and how active they are, it is impossible to ignore social media.’’ While social media is important, the minister also noted that it can be used to achieve negative purposes, especially to fuel inter-ethnic and religious hatred, which can be harmful. ‘’It also present novel challenges to government. We have seen the rise of hate speeches and fake news, and sometimes it is helpful to regulate by using technology, but we are not thinking of doing that in order to protect freedom of expression,’’ he said. According to the minister, the government, in spite of these challenges have no plans of limiting access to the internet. ‘’Nigerians should feel free to use social media to blow whistle on corruption and demand rule of law and accountability. Government activities are being delivered by leveraging on ICTs. We are working to ensure that everyone has access to government information. In using ICT, we have been able to achieve a lot like the government modified tax system, and the Treasury Single Account (TSA),’’ he said. The minister said further that government bodies must try to counter negative narratives on time, and can learn from how young people in Nigeria use social media in innovative ways. The Ministry, according to him, will continue to support all MDAs, and shall train and retrain members of staff. He urged every organisation to have a dedicated social media expert. Delivering his presentation titled ‘’Managing Public Communications in the Era of New Media, Mr Tony Ojobo, the Former Director Public Affairs, NCC, stated that social media has changed the world; especially the way we communicate, see and perceive things. Social media he said has broken boundaries. According to him, every organization needs to tell its own stories by stating the facts, and let people know what is being done about whatever problem there is. The message and the messenger he said, must resonate with the people. He said: ‘’Every organisation is perceived by the number of information it puts out there; hence, there is need for proactivity. There should be enough and timely information; else people will spread fake news. ‘’Organisations must develop rich content, and be engaging with people who demand accountability from them, in order to prevent rumours and fake news.’’ Using the NCC model, Mr Ojobo advised government MDAs to establish a strong and professional social media unit, with the aim of bridging the existing gap between ignorance and facts.