By Jacinta Nwachukwu/Gami Tadanyigbe Sheda (Kwali-FCT) –   The National Mathematical Centre (NMC) has underscored the need for the establishment of a policy to reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous air, water and soil pollution.
Prof. Stephen Onah, the Director/Chief Executive of NMC, made the appeal at the opening ceremony of a three-day International Conference on Mathematical Modeling of Environmental Pollution on Monday at Sheda, Kwali Area Council, FCT.
The conference has its theme as “Militating against environmental pollution through mathematical modeling for sustainable development’’.
According to Onah, the environment needs to be protected from toxic wastes which include thousands of chemicals, gasoline and other hydrocarbon products that can cause health problems ranging from birth defects to cancer.
He said that the most sources of pollution were from combustion of hydrocarbon, adding that hydrocarbon is a major entry point of pollution to the environment.
“There should be on ground, a sustainable environmental protection policy as required by one of the United Nations sustainable goals.
“The focus of most researches these days is on prediction of the pollutant transportation and transformation in order to provide vital information for the management of air and water qualities.
“Mathematical modeling and simulation of earth’s atmosphere and marine systems are aimed at obtaining balanced information on dynamics of the complex physical, chemical and biological processes,” he said.
Onah noted that mathematical models were used for computing optimum distance between residential areas and urban transportation network.
“This is to provide a better planning for urban transportation through satellite images, aerial photos and geospatial analysis.
“Towers finding the effect and impact of urban air quality with respect to urban transportation networks,” he explained.
Onah, however, hoped that the conference would help to address some of the environmental challenges currently confronting the country.
The Council Chairman, NMC, Prof. Buba Bajoga, appreciated the management of the centre and encouraged it to continue to see ways of making mathematics interesting to the students.
Bajoga expressed optimism that the centre would be a focal point of excellence in mathematical sciences in the country.
Similarly, Dr Thron Christopher of the Department of Mathematics, Texas A and M University, Central Texas U.S., advised the centre to endeavour to collaborate with the national community and other relevant agencies for better service delivery.
“Think in all directions especially in the area of competition. Engage students with a lot of competition programmes,” Christopher suggested.
According to him, practical activities and good relationship with the society will help to promote the centre and skills development. (NAN)