By Adekunle Williams and Solomon Asowata  Lagos –   The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) says it will inaugurate the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) Training Centre at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos on Dec. 7 . The General Manager, Corporate Affairs, FAAN, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, made this known at a news briefing on Monday in Lagos. Yakubu said the inauguration and designation of the facility as an ICAO/Airports Council International (ACI) Global Training Centre would further enhance the training of technical personnel for the industry. She explained that before the centre was approved, a team of inspectors from ICAO, had visited the facility regularly and discovered some open items which were closed by FAAN’s management before the final approval was given. “Sometimes last year, during the ACI meeting in Mauritius, FAAN training school was designated as an ICAO training centre. On Dec. 7, ICAO will be coming to Nigeria for the inauguration of the facility. “One of the advantages of the training centre is that it will make it easier for member countries to train their personnel in Nigeria. “It will also be cheaper for them to come to Nigeria to be trained, rather than going to United Kingdom, United States and other countries around the world. “Another advantage is that there will be more opportunity for those in the region to get trained. “You know when cost is not really a factor; more people will be factored in for training. “There is also accessibility for trainees and the weather conditions are favourable in Nigeria, while the learning facilities are fantastic and new. “For ICAO to designate Nigeria as a training centre, you will know that everything that we needed to put in place have been put in place,” Yakubu added. According to her, arrangements have been made to get ICAO trained inspectors from all over the world to handle training at the centre. Yakubu commended the FAAN Managing Director, Mr Saleh Dunoma, who also doubles as the President of ACI-Africa, for upgrading the facilities to its present status. She also disclosed that the FAAN management was working assiduously toward the certification of two more airports in the country next year. Yakubu noted that the certification of the Abuja and Lagos airports in 2017 by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) had given FAAN the impetus to push for the certification of more airports. She said: “You know there are certain conditions that must be met before an airport is certified. “Before Lagos and Abuja airports were certified last year, we had to fulfill all these conditions and before any other airport would be certified, same conditions too have to be met. “Recently, a team from ICAO came around during the Airport Excellence (APEX) training, which was held in Nigeria. “The team went to Kano, Port Harcourt and Enugu airports. I can assure you that next year, one or more airports will also be certified after we have fulfilled all the conditions.” (NAN)