By Chidinma Ewunonu-Aluko  Ibadan   –     Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo state has assured the 2018 Batch C stream 11 Corps Members deployed to Oyo state and Ogun of adequate security and welfare during their national service. Ajimobi, represented by his Special Adviser on Youth matters, Mr Bolaji Repete, gave the assurance on Wednesday at the closing ceremony of the 2018 batch C stream 11 Corps Members at Iseyin. He, however, advised the corps members to strive to contribute to the building of a united, peaceful, prosperous and egalitarian society. The governor also urged them to make their host communities enviable ones by shunning all forms of vices impeding the development of the country. “I urge you to cultivate and maintain healthy relationship with your host communities. Meditate afresh on how best you can serve the nation during this service year. “Make up your mind that you will do more than ever before, strive to be in pursuit of excellence at all` times,” he said. Earlier, the Oyo state NYSC Coordinator, Mrs Eniola Ambekemo, said the duration of the three-week camp with about 2,000 corps members was peaceful with the members exhibiting excellent behaviours. Ambekemo said the members were posted to all nooks and crannies of Oyo state and Ogun in compliance with the Federal Government policy. The policy, she said stipulated that corps members be posted to four areas of need: rural health care, education, rural infrastructure and agriculture. She urged the people of the two states to accord the corps members, warm reception to encourage them to settle down and bring out the best in them in serving their host communities. Ambekemo also implored the corps members to continue to exhibit good character in the discharge of their duties and embark on developmental projects that would leave their footprints in the sand of time. “As you proceed to your places of primary assignment, allow the training you received in camp make a difference for good in your lives during and after service. “As good ambassadors of your family and the NYSC scheme, ensure that you keep the flag flying, be security conscious and respect the culture of the community you find yourself,” she said.