By Olanrewaju Akojede  Lagos    –       The Vice-Chancellor, Crawford University, Prof. Rotimi Ajayi, on Monday said that the university would be churning out an unprecedented 304 graduands with 48 per cent of the students scored above average grade. The erudite scholar of Health Physics made the disclosure at a news conference to herald the 10th Convocation of the Faith-based University at its campus, Kilometre 8, Atan/Agbara Road, Igbesa. Ajayi said that there would be 304 graduating students with 107 coming from the College of Natural and Applied Science, 151 from the College of Business and Social Sciences. “The convocation, tagged “Launching of 10th Unicorns” will be awarding First degrees, Postgraduate Diplomas and Masters degrees to the deserving graduands who were found worthy in learning and character. “It is worthy to know that, for the first time in the history of the institution’s convocation, 46 pioneer graduands from the school of Part-Time Studies will be graduating. “From this crop of Bachelor Degrees, we have 9 per cent with First Class, and 39 per cent with Second Class Upper Division. “For the Second Class Lower Division, we have 42 per cent and 28 per cent in the Third Class category,’’ he said. Ajayi said that the achievements made in the 48 per cent of students above the average was through the university’s policy of compulsory reading hours and concerted efforts of the lecturers. “This has helped a lot in encouraging the students to face what they are in the university for. We are known for academic excellence and we want to sustain that pedigree. “We also have a ratio of 1:10 of students to a lecturer; so, for us in the university, we lay much premium on academic excellence as against having such a large population of students uncatered for. “The convocation lecture will be delivered by Dr Kehinde Ladipo, Senior Advisor, LEKOIL Ltd. who is a former Director in Geo-science and Petroleum Engineering Studies, University of Benin,’’ he said. Ajayi said that the topic of the convocation lecture is “The Dilemma of Opportunities: Making a Success of Life-Long Choices”.