Marrakech   –       UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Monday described the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration a roadmap to prevent suffering and chaos. In his opening address at the Intergovernmental conference for the adoption of the Global Compact, Guterres said that the document would provide cooperation strategies that would benefit all. He debunked myths about Compact, describing them as false. According to him, one of the myths is that Compact will allow the UN to impose migration policies on member-states, thereby infringing on their sovereignty. Others are that migration is essentially a movement of people from the South to the global North and that developed countries do not need migration. He explained that the Compact was not a treaty and as such not legally binding. “It is a framework for international cooperation, rooted in an inter-governmental process of negotiation in good faith, that specifically reaffirms the principle of State sovereignty.’’ He said that the Compact emphasised “the sovereign right of States to determine their national migration policy and their prerogative to govern migration within their jurisdiction, in conformity with international law.” He noted that South-South migration today was larger than South-to-North migration, adding that currently, there were more African migrants in other African countries than in Europe. He further noted that in the many places where fertility was declining and life expectancy rising, economies would stagnate and people would suffer without migration. For example, he said: “My mother in Portugal is 95 years old. She needs 24-hour home care. “When I visit, I seldom see a Portuguese person taking care of her. It is normally migrants who tend to her needs, around the clock, day in and day out, and Portugal is not one of the richest countries in the world. It is clear that most developed countries need migrants across a broad spectrum of vital roles, from caring for elderly people to preventing the collapse of health services, just to mention two of them.’’ According to the UN scribe, more than 80 per cent of the world’s migrants move between countries in a safe and orderly fashion. However, unregulated migration, he noted resulted in loss of lives due to perilous journeys across deserts, oceans and rivers the activities of smugglers, unscrupulous employers and other predators. “More than 60,000 migrants have died on the move since the year 2000. This is a source of collective shame. “And of course, behind every number is a person – a woman, a child, a man, who simply dream for what any of us dream – opportunity, dignity and a better life. “But whether their movement is voluntary or forced; and whether or not they have been able to obtain formal authorization for movement, all human beings must have their human rights respected and their dignity upheld. “To deny this – and to vilify any group of people – is the road to dehumanization and horror.’’ Urging the global community not to succumb to fear or false narratives, Guterres said that societies were stronger, more resilient and enriched, not threatened, by diversity. ‘’ “As societies become more multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-cultural, political, economic, social and cultural investments in cohesion are vital. “Every member, every group, must feel valued as such and simultaneously feel they belong to the society as a whole. This is the way to counter the current groundswell of racism and xenophobia. “Even more broadly and just as urgent, we must address the roots of discontent in many countries in the face of rapid change and rising inequalities.’’ He said that Global Compact rests on two simple ideas that migration had always been with the human society and as such should be well managed and safe, not irregular and dangerous. Secondly, he said that national policies were far more likely to succeed with international cooperation, adding that along with the Global Compact on Refugees, the Global Compact for Migration provides a platform for humane, sensible, mutually beneficial action. Noting that some nations had withdrawn from the compact, he expressed the hope that they would see the value for their own societies and get on board. News Agency of Nigeria reports that Austria, Australia, U.S., Poland, Chile, Hungary, Slovakia, Latvia withdrew from the Compact while Bulgaria, Italy, Estonia, Switzerland, Israel and Slovania were undecided. He commended the efforts of the President of the General Assembly, the facilitators, his Special Representative on migration among others in negotiating the Global Compact and thanked Morocco for hosting the epoch-making event. “Let’s work together for a safer, less fearful and more prosperous future for both for our own societies and for the world’s migrants,’’ he said.