By Akeem Abas Oyo (Oyo State) –   Mr Seyi Adisa, the Principal Private Secretary to Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State, has assisted 100 unemployed youths in Afijio Local Government in acquiring vocational skills. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the youths on Saturday in Awe town graduated from a vocational training facilitated by Adisa. The empowerment programme facilitated by Adisa in partnership with 7Eleven Foundation was conducted by Olanreforward Vocational and Entrepreneurship Development School. NAN reports that Adisa, a lawyer is also the APC Assembly candidate for Afijio State Constituency. Adisa said that it was a realisation of his vision to give lifeline to unemployed youths as part of efforts to reduce unemployment rate in the country. “What we have just done is to teach the youths how to sustain their livelihood through vocational skills. “We empower them with five different skills namely, shoe-making, catering, fish and snail farming, painting and paint-making as well as tie and dye. “The purpose of this is to curb youth unemployment. It is something I am very passionate about as one those youths. It is my desire to empower several Nigerians starting from my local government, ‘’ he said. Adisa said that the youths had just learnt business skills, saying they would also teach them character building. The governor’s aide said that the programme would not end with the 100 youths, promising to empower more unemployed youths. According to him, those graduating today will be monitored on monthly basis, while 7Eleven would teach them business skills. “We are going to register their businesses and group them into cooperatives to access business loans from banks, financial schemes and other government programmes,’’ Adisa said. Mr Aderemi Adeniyi, the Chairman, Afijio Local Government, commended Adisa for the laudable projects, saying he had brought a new dimension to the usual empowerment programmes. “This is the best way to empower youths. It is good to teach the youths how to sustain their livelihood through skills. We are going to complement his efforts at local government level,’’ he said. Adeniyi urged the youths to make judicious use of the knowledge acquired and opportunity availed them to be self-employed. Some of the youths, who spoke with NAN, commended Adisa for the opportunity given to them and promised to make good use of it. NAN reports that the graduating youths were presented certificates of completion and start-up equipment in respect of their vocations.