ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – Sir Stanley Amuchie, candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in the 2019 governorship election in Imo State, has urged his supporters to keep hope alive as the judiciary tries to resolve the dispute between him and Senator Ifeanyi Araraume, on who is the authentic candidate of the party. The case he filed praying the court not to allow his name to be removed as candidate for the election was heard on Monday by Justice I. E. Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja. Justice Ekwo had adjourned the case till early January following the counter affidavit filed by Araraume’s counsel, D.D. Dodo (SAN) to enable Amuchie’s legal team led by Ricky Tarfa (SAN), to respond. In a statement he personally signed on Monday entitled ‘Let’s Keep Hope Alive, Victory Is Certain’, Sir Stanley said: “My people of Imo State, we address you today with a great sense of responsibility knowing that you will be wondering what is happening to our campaign to reclaim the lost glory of our dear State.
“We were in Court today at the Federal High Court, Abuja. Our lawyers led by the eminent SAN, Ricky Tarfa (SAN), asked for an adjournment to enable them reply to the counter affidavit filed and served on us today by the defendant, who seek to usurp our rightful position as Governorship Candidate of our great party, APGA. They have been going round the State prancing and campaigning in clear violation of a restraining order of the Court. “The Court today reiterated it’s earlier directive that both parties should maintain the status quo in order not to tamper with the res of the matter.
“Today’s Court session was a continuation of the case we filed asking the Court to cause my name not to be removed as Governorship Candidate of APGA based on the gubernatorial primary election conducted on October 7, 2018 at Concorde Hotel, Owerri, which we clearly won as testified by both INEC and Police observer teams.
“We know that the main aim and strategy of the defendant is to delay the course of justice and frustrate us. But we will neither be frustrated nor deterred in upholding the ticket which belongs to us legally and constitutionally. “Our teeming supporters should keep hope alive. We have great confidence in the judiciary and we believe that we are standing on the pedestal of justice having met the requirements necessary to fly the flag of our great party in the 2019 Governorship election in Imo State.
“As a law abiding campaign team, we have elected to obey the restraining order of the Court pending the determination of our suit.
“This explains why we are yet to roll out drums and campaign across the 27 Local Government Areas of our state.”