Abuja(SundiataPost) –A group among the members of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics in Federal Polytechnic, Bida, says Dr Abubakar Dzukogi, the Rector of the institution, deserves a second tenure in office. In a statement issued in Abuja on Monday, the group, known as ASUP Group), noted that the various achievements of the rector, conspicuously noticeable on the campus of Federal Polytechnic, Bida, were veritable grounds for its quest for his re-appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari. The statement, signed by Mr Femi Fashagba, a leader of the group, said that the group would not support any move from any quarters nor plans by some union members to work against the rector’s re-appointment. “The main reason for our support for his second term in office is that immediately he came into office in 2015, he expanded the administrative structure of the polytechnic from four school-structure to seven school-structure. “This brought about introduction of National Diploma programmes in Library Studies, Tourism, Mechatronics, Computer Engineering and Higher National Diplomas in Foundry and Welding which has secured the approval of the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). “The administration has just acquired licence for the F.M. station which we have craved for even as other institutions that do not run Mass Communication have such stations. “Also, the Dzukogi’s tenure acquired a licence for the presence of a Micro-Finance bank currently in operation on the campus, construction and completion of Convocation Arena, the twin-lecture theatre in use and BAM Complex, among others,’’ he said. The group therefore, insisted that it “is the prerogative of the Governing Council of the institution and the Federal Minister of Education, to recommend the appointment and re-appointment of the rector to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria’’. Fashagba said that it would never and has never been the duty of any union to get involved in the process of appointing or re-appointment of a rector in any situations in line with Section 8(6:b) of the Federal Polytechnic Act of 19993 CAP F17 LFN and extant circular on tenured-appointments of chief executives. Other leaders of the group are Dr Victor Okolobah, Mr Kingsley Ewanshia and Mr Abubakar Mikugi.(NAN)