Awka     –         Chief Damina Okeke-Ogene, the President of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Anambra Chapter describes the death of its former National President, Dr Dozie Ikedife as `shocking’. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Ikedife, born on August 24, 1932 died about 7pm on Tuesday, December 11, 2018 in his Nnewi country home, Anambra at the age of 86 years. A reputable medical practitioner, Ikedife acquired a Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery degrees from the University of Glasgow, Scotland in 1958 and 1959 respectively. The deceased’s first son, Dozie Ikedife (jnr) confirmed the demise of his father to journalists on Wednesday in Awka. He said the elder statesman would be buried on December 12, 2018 less than 24 hours after his death in Nnewi in line with his wish, saying his burial ceremony would be announced later. Reacting to Ikedife’s death, Okeke-Ogene told NAN that Igbo people had lost one of its icons and true lover of Igbo tradition and culture. “Ikedife was a detribalized Nigerian and an illustrious Igbo son who spoke Igbo, stood for Igbo culture and a defender of truth,’’ he said. He said that the former Ohaneze president left a big shoe which people behind would struggle hard to fit into. “Ikedife left a big shoe behind, all that we will be trying to do is to ensure we improve on the principles he left,” he said. Similarly, the Anambra Government has described late Ikedife as “a great iroko’ and brilliant medical doctor who believed in community development.” Mr C Don Adinuba, the State Commissioner for Information and Enlightenment said the state government received the news of Ikedife’s death late Tuesday evening with shock. Adinuba recalled that Ikedife distinguished himself as a student at Onitsha, before he traveled to the United Kingdom where he studied medicine and majored in Obstetrics and gynecology. “Ikedife would have chosen to remain in UK where he had better job opportunities, but chose to return home where he established a hospital in his Nnewi community because of his love for community development. “During the Nigeria/Biafra Civil War, he further demonstrated his love for his people by staying back in his area to assist victims of the civil war and render help to those in need,” he said. Adinuba said with sudden burial date of Ikedife, the state government would take part in the burial ceremony when the family communicated government on the burial ceremony.