 Ukpor(    –     The Anambra State Association (ASA) Worldwide, says it hopes to attend to no fewer than 20, 000 people with medical needs during the 2018 edition of its medical outreach in the state. Dr Nwachukwu Anikwendu, the President of the association made this known in Ukpor, Nnewi South Local Government Area on Thursday. ASA-Worldwide is an association of various chapters of Anambra indigenes in about 37 countries across the globe. Anikwendu said that the 70-man medical team would attend to patients in seven communities where it hoped to diagnose and treat no fewer than 3,000 persons each. He said the Diaspora community was worried about the poor state of health and high cost of medicals service delivery in the country and wished to lend a helping hand during their visit to Nigeria. The America-based doctor said the mission would teach the people about the common sicknesses that killed Nigerians including high blood pressure and bad water which result to typhoid and poor sanitation. “We want good health for our people, if you have good health you will be more productive and be able to do a lot for yourself and your family. “We represent ASA-Worldwide from more than 37 countries; we are with a team of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and specialists. “We are here to look at what is wrong and provide medical and surgical care, we give advice, give medication and refer to hospitals if need be. “We intend to see about 20, 000 people in seven communities where we have designated for this service, we have committed ourselves to the poor, nobody is charged any money, and it is entirely free. “The healthcare system in Nigeria is very poor compared to other countries. “Anambra people in the Diaspora contributed at least 100, 000 dollars to sponsor us,” Anikwendu said. Mr Chudi Asidianya, the General Secretary of the body said that apart from providing diagnostics and treatment, the mission would give out medicines, eye glasses, prosthetics, wheelchair and walkers. Asidianya listed other benefiting communities as Obosi, Abba, Anyamelum, Oraeri, Abatete and Abagana. He said that the chapters represented in the mission were U.S., South Africa, UK, Denmark, Japan and Canada, adding that other branches would join. He said that there would also be the Diaspora engagements where they would explore the areas they could help to market the tourism potential of Anambra to the world. Asidianya called on the people of these communities to avail themselves of the opportunity and turn out in large number on the day the team was billed to visit them. He said that the medical mission would end on Dec. 26.