By Joan Odafe  Lagos –  Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, on Monday advised residents, especially traders, to adopt moderate lifestyle so as to achieve good healthy living. The governor gave the advice at the inauguration of Easy Health Access Project (EHAP), also known as MTN Market Doctors’, in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that ‘MTN Market Doctors’ was organised by MTN Foundation in collaboration with Lagos State Government. The event was a medical outreach focused on providing free healthcare to market men and women and their wards. Represented by Dr Eniola Erinosho, Director of Disease Control, Lagos State, Ambode said attaining good health status was feasible through moderate lifestyle changes. “Behavioural modifications include avoidance of smoking completely, including limiting exposure to smoke as passive smoking is very dangerous. “Avoiding in-between meals, reducing alcohol intake, eating of balanced meals, fruits and foods that are in season. “Drink at least three litres of water every day, reduce excessive sugar intake, eat less of heavily spiced foods, fast and salted foods and avoid risky sexual exposure,” Ambode added. The governor explained that maintaining a normal body weight, engagement in regular aerobic activities, such as brisk walking and undergoing regular health screening could help to prevent health complications. In his remarks, the Director, MTN Nigeria, Mr Gbenga Oyebode, expressed concern that many people, particularly those in the marketplace, didn’t have time to care for themselves, leading to health complications. “Men and women in our markets don’t have time to take care of themselves. “This is what allows simple health issues to become complicated. “The goal is to provide medical assessment and treatment for malaria, hypertension, diabetes, aches and pains,” Oyebode said. Also, Mr Nwaeke Peter, Health Portfolio Manager, MTN Foundation, said the project was a pilot programme which had already started in Rivers. Peter said: “Research, over the years have shown that mothers, who ply their trade in the marketplace do not have enough time to leave their wares and go to the hospital. “Even when they go, the cost of healthcare is a bit on the high side. “So we decided to bring doctors, nurses, pharmacists to the market so they can check their vital signs, basic health diagnosis and provide medication to them free.” The Director, MTN Foundation, Mr Dennis Okoro, said that the scheme would also hold at Mile 12 Market, Ketu; Ayangburen Market, Ikorodu and Folashade Tinubu Ojo, Gorodom in Lagos Island. Okoro said the programme would end on Thursday. Mr Taiwo Oshinusi, Director, MTN Market Doctor, said the programme was also aimed at taking care of the needs of the patients. According to Oshinusi: “We found out that when medical outreach like this is done and medications given for about two weeks. “After two weeks, the people fall back to their old lifestyle and don’t comply with recommendations given to them because they can’t afford it. “We have opened up clinics in the market as follow-up centres to monitor them until we see improvements,” he said. (NAN)