By Akeem Abas Ibadan –  Sen. Olufemi Lanlehin, the governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress(ADC) in Oyo State, has decried the monetisation of the nation’s electoral system and called for joint efforts to restore sanity to the polity. Lanleyin made the call in Ibadan on Monday at the ongoing 2018 Press Week organised by the Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Chapter. Lanlehin, a lawyer and former senator, said that the monetisation of elections if unchecked has grave consequences for the nation’s political process as well as the forthcoming general elections. Represented by his Media Assistant, Damola Adeoye, Lanleyin said that INEC, security agencies, civil society groups and the media have important roles to play in restoring sanity to the electoral process. “There is no controversy in the fact that the heavy monetisation of our electoral process has grave dangers for our politics, and indeed the credibility of the 2019 elections. “The task of getting our elections right in 2019 is a joint one, and it begins by downplaying heavy financing and advertising credibility, intelligence and precedence,” he said. He said the monetisation of the process has relegated integrity, intelligence, charisma and pro-people affections to the background. The governorship candidate said that the first grave consequence was the population of the political space by the rich to the exclusion of the poor and middle class. Lanlehin said that the monetisation of politics “ leads to undue manipulation of the poor, making them mere observers of a process they should ordinarily drive.’’ “Today’s politics is now that of the highest bidder. No wonder billionaires and moneybags have found a home in many political parties, and are even given consideration by party headquarters. “This derision of our people is made possible due to the poverty in the land which politicians have now taken undue advantage of. “These days, people care less about ideology, manifesto or blueprint. What people now want is money, money and money. “ One cannot really blame anyone, as that’s what the ruling class has conditioned them to,’’ he said. Lanlehin said that an election could not be credible when the field is segregated and vote buying is a possibility. Oba Lekan Balogun, the Otun-Olubadan of Ibadanland, said there was no nation that would place its electoral choice on money. He said the issue of monetisation of the electoral process needed to be checked as quickly as possible to restore sanity to the polity. NAN reports that the event was attended by the NUJ Chairman in the state, Mr Adewunmi Faniran, among other dignitaries. (NAN)