By Abbas Bamalli   Kano   –     The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has commended the Federal Government (FG) for introducing and sustaining the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAID) programme in orientation camps across the country. The Kano State Coordinator of the scheme, Alhaji Ladan Baba, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Kano that the introduction of SAID was timely. Baba said that it was imperative for youths to be self-dependent than clamouring for government jobs. The coordinator said that it was not easy to sustain such a programme. He said that the sustainability of SAID would impact positively on the youth and boost the economy of the country. “Unemployment is one of the major challenges in the country; therefore, the introduction of the skills’ acquisition programme will help in reducing the challenges. “As a graduate, you must not wait for a white-collar job, but you can become the self-reliant when you learn some skills. “This is what SAID is all about and through that, you can become an employer of labour,’’ he said. The coordinator said that skills’ acquisition training was among the core programmes that took place during the three weeks’ orientation exercise in camps across the nation. He said that in Kano state, no fewer than 1,400 out of 1,669 corps members in camp participated in various aspects of the training during the last orientation exercise. He said that the programme was created with the aim of making the corps members become self- reliant and employers of labour after the service year. The coordinator advised them to embrace the training they acquired at the orientation camp with passion for them to achieve their desired goals during and after the service year. Baba commended the management of the NYSC for providing the camp with a 100KVA soundproof generator. He, however, appealed to the Director-General of the NYSC, Brig.-Gen. Suleiman Kazaure, to provide the camp with five security watch towers. “We also want the management to provide us with a befitting pavilion to further upgrade the status of the permanent orientation camp in Kusalla, Karaye Local Government Area, ‘’ he said.