By George Odok  Calabar,    –     Gov. Ben Ayade’s giant stride in road infrastructure in the past three and a half years has been described as a revolution worth emulating by all leaders. The Cross River Commissioner for Works, Mr Dane Osim-Asu, stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Calabar. He said that the state had completed and put to use over a 100 kilometres of rural roads across the state. He told NAN that the roads were being constructed to link more communities and promote economic activities across the state. “We have completed over 100 kilometres of road in the last three and a half years. Such projects included the Arthur Jarvis University road in Akpabuyo local government and the Ikot Effangha road in Akamkpa local government. “Others are the Akpet Central road leading to Ogbe in Biase local government and the Ovukwa Junction road in Obubra local government; the Usung-Usuk road in Odukpani and the Gov. Ben Ayade Boulevard in Ogoja and others.” He told NAN that the state government was determined to ensure that all local government areas in the state benefitted from road construction, describing the achievement as monumental and revolutionary. The Commissioner added that the 27 kilometres road project in Boki local government which links Boki East and West, aimed at giving communities in Boki East access to the local government headquarters in Boje, was 90 per cent completed with 28 culverts and two bridges. “In the last three and half years, just one road project that we have in the Northern Senatorial District is 148 kilometres cutting across the five northern local government areas of Obudu, Obanliku, Ogoja, Yala and Bekwarra. “We have completely finished the earth work and stone base; we have installed a quarry and some construction equipment. As we speak, we have commenced the laying of asphalt on the road. “This 148 kilometres road project was awarded by the state government at the cost of N31.7billion. We have been able to manage the availability of our funds. “Also, the road in Yahe-Wanikom leading to Benue state border road, which used to be the trans-east North-West route where communication and trading used to pass through have been abandoned for over 40 years and near impassable “The Ayade led government has awarded that road which is 38.5 kilometres for construction and the earth work is about 70 per cent completed,’’ he added. According to him, in spite of the limited revenue accruing to the state from the Federation Account, the infrastructure was provided to give the people a sense of belonging by promoting economic activities in the rural and urban areas. He said that the 12 kilometres carnival routes which cut-across major streets in Calabar metropolis have been completely rehabilitated for the street party. The commissioner called on all residents of Cross River to come out en mass and vote massively for Ayade in the 2019 gubernatorial election in the state