By Adekunle Williams  Lagos –   Nigerian carrier, Air Peace, says it will move a part of its flight operations to the Murtala Muhammed Airport 2 (MMA2), Lagos on Jan. 2, 2019 to position itself for better service to its customers. The airline made the announcement in a statement signed by its Corporate Communications Manager, Mr Chris Iwarah, on Thursday in Lagos. The statement said Air Peace, which has its main hub at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, would now operate its Lagos-Akure, Lagos-Asaba, Lagos-Kaduna and Lagos-Port Harcourt NAF Base flights from MMA2. According to the statement, the development is in line with its expansion plan and strategy to deliver a much better experience to members of the flying public using its services. It added that the expansion to MMA2 would address the space constraints the airline was facing at the GAT. He said: “We are pleased to announce the extension of our flight operations from our main base, GAT to MMA2, effective Jan. 2, 2019. “We will now operate our Lagos-Akure, Lagos-Asaba, Lagos-Kaduna and Lagos-Port Harcourt NAF Base flights from MMA2. Other new domestic routes we plan to inaugurate soon will also be done from the facility. “Other domestic flights out of Lagos will, however, operate from our main Base, the GAT. “We are quite hopeful that the expansion of our Lagos base to MMA2 will afford us the space and convenience to deliver first-class flight experience to our loyal customers.’’ The statement noted that the expansion of the airline’s operations could not have come at a better time than the Yuletide season. “As is the experience around this time of the year, we anticipate a great leap in the demand for air travel. “Already, we are creating more flights to cater to the expected rise in the demand for air travel at this period. We have also opened up a good number of routes in the last one year. “As a customer-oriented carrier, it is only strategic that we seek a better operational atmosphere for seamless passenger facilitation and exceptional customer service experience. “This exactly is what MMA2 offers with its state-of-the-art facilities and we are indeed proud of our decision to annex it to our Lagos hub,” he said.  (NAN)