By Muhammad Nasir Bashir Dutse –   Four governorship aspirants on the platform of the the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Social Democratic Party (SDP) have on Tuesday defected to the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Jigawa. The defectors are: Tijjani Gaya, former PDP governorship aspirant and former National Assembly member who represented Dutse/Kiyawa constituency; Danladi Auyo, former PDP governorship aspirant; Hajiya Ramatu Yalleman, former SDP governorship aspirant and Ali Sa’adu Birnin Kudu, a former PDP governorship aspirant and former Governor of the state. Others are: Yakubu Ruba, former Commissioner for Justice and PDP lawyer; Alhaji Jinjiri Dutse, former Commissioner under the defunct PDP government in the state; Alhaji Muhammad Harbo, former Commissioner of the defunct PDP government in the state; Alhaji Nasidi Ali, former Commissioner in the defunct PDP government and Hajiya Fatima Widi-Jalo a former commissioner under the defunct Saminu Turaki administration. The rest are: Alhaji Muhammad Maifulani; Ali Danazumi; Abba Taura; Alhaji Bura Burin and Alhaji Yusif. Receiving the defectors, Gov. Muhammad Badaru said: “These PDP stalwarts have joined our great party, the APC, with 151,500 of their supporters”. Earlier, the APC Chairman in the state, Alhaji Ado Sani, said the defectors decided to join the party having been satisfied with the purposeful leadership of Badaru and President Muhammadu Buhari. Sani assured the new members of equal treatment by the party. According to him, the development marked the end of PDP in the state. “This is a clear testimony of the acceptance of your leadership and that of President Buhari. ” And this is also a clear indication that Jigawa people are solidly behind you and President Buhari. “This also marks the end of PDP in Jigawa as all the important members have decided that the best place for them to be is APC,” he told the governor. Speaking on behalf of the defectors, Yalleman, the former SDP governorship aspirant, promised to work together to ensure the success of the APC during the 2019 general elections.  (NAN)