By Emmanuel Acha  Enugu –  The warring factions of Ohaneze Ndigbo youth wing on Monday reconciled and promised to work with youths from other parts of the country for the unity of Nigeria. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the youth wing of the apex Igbo social-cultural organisation had been torn by factions, following a leadership tussle that lasted for eight months. The crisis followed a rancorous election wherein two members, Mr Arthur Uchenna and Mr Tony Ezekwelu, separately laid claims to its leadership. However, peace was restored following an intervention by some stakeholders led by a former National Youth Leader, Mr Chika Nzelu. Nzelu, who briefed newsmen on Monday in Enugu after a joint meeting of the contending factions, said that the two groups had agreed to work together under the leadership of Uchenna. He said it was time for youths in the region to work as one, noting that they had long been divided by external interests. The former youth chairman appealed to the parent body to swear in Uchenna, who was hitherto declared the winner of the election eight months ago. “Tony Ezekwelu has surrendered for the interest of the youths in the region and we want to appeal to our parent body to swear in Arthur Uchenna,” Nzelu said. Also speaking, Ezekwelu explained that he decided to withdraw the petitions challenging the emergence of Uchenna in the interest of peace. The former deputy chief whip of Anambra House of Assembly said that they had fought for too long and needed to work together as one family. “We held an election but I was not satisfied with the outcome. This struggle has polarised Igbo youths and people have taken advantage of same. “We do not want the future of Igbo youths to continue to be in jeopardy and that is why I have decided to unconditionally withdraw my petition. “I pledge my loyalty to Uchenna and appeal to our parent body to recognize him as duly elected,” he said. Ezekwelu said that he was willing to work with the leadership of the youth wing to redeem the image of Igbo youths. (NAN)