By Emmanuel Acha Enugu –   All support groups under the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 general elections have formed an alliance to ensure victory of the party at the polls in the state. The Director-General of one of the support groups known as the G17, Mr Chinedu Mbah, disclosed this on Monday in Enugu during a grand rally for good governance in the state. Mbah, who is also the coordinator of the support groups, said that the alliance became necessary to harmonise activities of the groups. He said that it was necessary for the groups to work together since they have a common goal which is to ensure the victory of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and the PDP at the polls. “Gov. Ugwuanyi is leading the state by example, delivering on his campaign promises. “The G17 had supported the PDP administration in the state and is poised to work for the re-election of the governor in 2019. “This group in the last eight months had been building structures in all the 260 wards in the state to ensure the victory of the governor. “I call on residents of the state to reciprocate the kind disposition of the governor by supporting his political aspiration,” Mbah said. In a goodwill message, the Director-General of the PDP Campaign Organisation, Chief Charles Egungbe, said that all the support groups under the party would be accommodated in their campaign exercises. “Under my watch, we shall accommodate all support groups to ensure that the governor is returned because God is at the centre of our mobilisation,” he said. Also speaking, the state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Mrs Rita Mbah, described the governor as an exemplary leader who had continued to touch the lives of many people. Mbah said that the contributions of the governor in turning around the fortunes of Nike Lake Resort, a hospitality industry owned by the state government, was unprecedented. She said that apart from approving the payment of arrears of salaries of members of staff of the resort, the governor had also approved the upgrade of facilities at the resort. Mbah commended the governor for the massive road reconstruction across the state, especially some of the roads in Nkanu which she said were constructed during the colonial era. Responding, Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi said that he was appreciative of the support by all stakeholders and support groups in the party. The governor assured that the 2019 elections would be peaceful in the state, adding that all efforts of residents of the state for his victory would end in praise. (NAN)