By Emmanuel Mogbede  Abuja -Mr Nonso Ezedimma, National Chairman all All Progressives Congress (APC) Support Groups, says Nigeria’s challenges are a passing phase that will soon end. Ezedimma said this on Monday in Abuja when he led some members of the support groups from across the federation to present food and clothing to displaced persons in the Karamajiji Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Karamajiji is a suburb of the Municipal Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He said the support groups were at the IDPs camp to celebrate President Muhammadu Buhari’s 76th birthday with displaced and less privileged persons on his behalf. He described Buhari as a man of character, purpose and integrity, adding that he had showed effective leadership and good governance. The national chairman said things had started improving in the country in the last three and half years since President assumed office. “We know the President has less privileged persons in mind and will be happy identifying with them. “Nigerians, particularly the less privileged, should know that whatever we are passing through as a country, is a passing phase, it will surely pass and we are already seeing results. “The President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government is doing everything possible to ensure that issues of security and the country`s economy are addressed holistically. “ The government has recovered lots of money from those who looted public treasury, Nigerians will continue to witness good things so long as the APC government is in power,“ he said. He added that the APC-led government had achieved a lot, stressing that no government in the country`s history had performed as much as the Buhari government within the last three and half years. He said the government`s achievements had surpassed those of the 16-year rule of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ezedimma said the records were there for all to see, adding that the groups were proud to support Buhari and that its members were working hard to ensure his re-election in 2019. “In the 2019 election, we are not contesting with any credible candidate, so nobody can defeat President Buhari,“he said. He refuted insinuations that Nigeria was more divided under the APC government than before, adding that those saying such were actually the ones trying to divide the country. (NAN)