By Muftau Ogunyemi  Akure   –     The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ondo State Command, says 1, 500 personnel have been deployed to all the Local Government Areas of the state to ensure protection of lives and property during and after the festive period. Mr Pedro Awili, NSCDC state commandant, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Akure that the deployment of personnel would curb activities of criminals who may want to take advantage of the season to perpetrate their nefarious activities. Awili, said that the NSCDC officers deployed for the special assignment comprise intelligence officers, armed personnel and regular officers. He said that the personnel were positioned to strategic areas of the state and would work round the clock throughout the festive period. According to him, the officers and men of the state NSCDC were given special training before their positing. “The selected officers were all trained, especially toward managing security during the festive season, and they were adequately deployed to cover all the 18 Local Government Areas of the state. “It is obvious that this season is a period where crimes are most perpetrated; people want to make quick money by engaging in armed robbery and stealing. “That is why we have decided to beef up security in the state during this Christmas season. “Also, all the security agencies have agreed among ourselves to ensure that our men are adequately mobilised to beef up on patrol, especially in the flash point where crimes are most perpetrated. “This will give people of the state the confidence that security agencies are responsive to their responsibility,’’ Awili said. The NSCDC commandant called on all traditional rulers and local government chairmen to partner with the command to ensure maximum security. The commander also urged members of the public to maintain peace during the festive period, assuring them that the state is protected. “We are also calling on members of public to adequately give us timely and verified information. “Security agencies in the state are not spirits, we are human beings like you and without information we can not do more than what we are doing. “Moreso, security is a collective responsibility, people should not think that the job of security is meant for security agencies alone. “The job of security is for everybody; the traditional rulers, landlords and tenants. “Please, let us be watchful in our environment and report any suspected movement of any person suspected to be criminal to security agencies; we are on 24 hours patrol,’’he said