A support group for Lagos State All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship aspirant, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, under the auspice, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu Touching Lives (BOS-TL) have stressed on the need for communities to embark on environmental sanitation to improve the health of its citizens. With health, education and environment as key values in the society and its areas of interest, the group is out to mobilise young people to live by these principles. Speaking to newsmen, during an environmental sanitation exercise held in Eputu community in Ibeju Lekki, Lagos, which had a large turnout of young people equipped with various materials to carry out the sanitation exercise, Convener of the group, Mr. Sesan Awonoiki said that they are mobilising the youths to help them understand the importance of keeping their environment clean. We have also decided to get involved physically and not just talking about it, we believe it will drive home the message more effectively. “We are about supporting our candidate and at the same teaching homes key values in our society, which in our opinion are on health, education and on the environment. These are the key areas we want to ensure that we impact by touching people’s lives. So today, we are doing is the mobilisation of youths to understand the important of the environment; to understand the importance of keeping the environment clean and for sanitation to be very positive. So, we are to show that it is not just about talking about it but doing it and that is why we are all here today to get involved, rolled our sleeves and work”, Awonoiki noted further. Speaking on why the focus in on youth, he said, “Well, the focus on youth is because first of all they are the tomorrow, and if we don’t get the right values into tomorrow, how can we expect them to live properly in the future. He added that the youths are the future and so it is important to get the right values to enhance their leadership skills for the future and good of the nation. On the choice of Eputu community, Awonoiki said, “I was here 20 years ago, the whole place was littered, had open latrines and rubbish on the streets and over the time they have been educated and so we feel that to kick off the campaign, we should come back to where we started to say that we are still here in the drive to be compliant and global citizens. A founding member of group, Mr. Gbenga Akintola stressed that part of the essence of the initiative is teach the people of Eputu how well to dispose their wastes effectively. “Sanitation gives good health which leads to productivity, so the idea is to get people to understand the importance of good health and sanitation in their lives.” “We are at the Eputu town in Ibeju Lekki; it is in the east central district of Lagos State. Basically what we have planned out is to have three areas of interventions, one of which is environment and for the environment, we want the people to imbibe the culture of keeping our environment clean and tidy as well as to appreciate the fact that even in waste, they can create things out of the waste, so that these wastes could be recycled. However, the most important thing is to keep our environment clean and tidy because when you are very clean, the rate at which you would be falling sick would be reduced”, Akintola added.