By Mabel Yakubu  Kaduna    –      The Executive Secretary, National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), Dr Masa’udu Kazaure, has promised to support the Kogi government to develop technical and vocational education in the state. Kazaure gave the assurance at a meeting with Mrs Rosemary Osikoya, the state’s commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, and her team in Kaduna on Tuesday. Kazaure, who was represented by Mr Suleiman Gwarzo, Director Special Duties, NBTE, said the board had discussed with the state government on issues affecting technical education at all levels including the accreditation of state’s technical colleges. According to Kazaure, the technical colleges were accredited in 2002, which expired in 2007, and have not been on NBTE database since then. He, therefore, commended the state government, the commissioner and her team for the visit, and promised to give the necessary support in developing technical and vocational education in Kogi. Earlier in her remarks, the commissioner appealed to the board to assist the state to promote technical and vocational education among youths for self-reliance. Osikoya said the state government, through the Council, had approved the establishment of 17 additional technical colleges to increase access to technical and vocational education across all the 21 Local Government Areas. She said the ministry’s team visited NBTE on the directive of Gov. Yahaya Bello, to seek its support on how to make the technical colleges functional and effective in building skills and manpower in the state. “The creation of these technical colleges is to reduce the number of youth illiteracy in Kogi and also encourage students to acquire technical skills. “The government sees this as a strategy to promote technical education among youths such that students could acquire technical skills for self-reliance within a school environment. “Kogi decided to create more formal centers for secondary education so that students will know that after junior studies instead of going to learn skills outside, they can rather learn it in school,” she said. The commissioner reiterated that the governor was particularly concerned about how to effectively train science, technical and vocational teachers in the state to achieve the set objectives. Osikoya urged individuals, groups, corporate organisations and relevant stakeholders to partner with the Kogi government to develop science, technical and vocational education in the state.