Abuja(SundiataPost) –The Jama’at Izalat al Bid’ah WaIqamatis Sunnah (JIBWIS) an Islamic society, in collaboration with Ishk Tolaram Foundation India, donated 3600 prosthetic legs and hands to amputees in the country. The National Chairman of JIBWIS, Abdullahi Bala-Lau, made the disclosure at a news conference where the
prosthetic legs and hands were donated to the beneficiaries on Friday in Abuja. Bala-Lau said that the prosthetic legs and hands donation was initiated by JIBWIS to assist the amputees,
especially those who could not afford to buy the artificial device to replace missing body part. According to him, JIBWIS provides this kind of assistance to disabled persons so that they can be able to stand
on their feet instead of them resorting to begging for survival. He added that “none of the beneficiaries could afford to buy this kind of artificial legs and hands which cost
at least N300,000. “We are providing it to the people who are in dire need at no cost, irrespective of their tribe or religion. “We are doing it for the sake of Allah so that we can earn a reward here and in the hereafter.” He appealed to Muslims, especially to those who have the means to support the initiative, to imbibe the
habit of assisting the less privileges in the society. He called on those in authority to assist the vulnerable groups, adding that rendering assistance to
disadvantaged groups was a support to humanity. Bala-Lau, however, urged Nigerians to intensify prayer for sustainable peace and tranquilly in Nigeria
as the 2019 general elections approach. “We are in a political period and we need serious prayers for Allah to choose the right leaders for the country,“ he said. The Chairman, Manara Support for Deformity Cases, Alhaji Abdullahi Abdulmalik, enjoined the beneficiaries
to shun begging and resume their normal economic activities. Abdulmalik, who said that the initiative would reduce begging, explained that it was designed to assist both
Muslims and none Muslims. According to him, it is a duty of every Muslim to assist both Muslims and none Muslims who are
in dire need. Malam Dalhatu Yusuf, 33, who hails from Plateau, appreciated JIBWIS for coming to their aid. He said “I was a commercial motorcycle rider before. I had an accident few years ago and I am very
optimistic that this leg will help me to resume normal activities.” (NAN)