Enugu   –      Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has cautioned traditional rulers and leaders of communities against misappropriation of funds provided by World Bank for various rural projects in the state. Ugwuanyi gave the warning while presenting first tranche of the funds to each of the five benefiting communities on Tuesday in Amodu, Nkanu East Local Government Area of the state. The governor, who was represented by the General Manager, Community and Social Development Project (CSDP), Dr Maximus Asogwa, said that the projects were done in collaboration with the state government. The governor urged the community leaders to ensure that the projects were completed within time-frame to attract more infrastructures to their localities. Ugwuanyi advised them to avoid internal crisis which could stall the projects and consequently erode the confidence reposed on them by their subjects. He called on members of the Community Project Management Committee (CPMC) in each community to be fully in charge of the execution of the projects and live up to expectation. According to him, all the projects are community-driven since the communities listed their projects for intervention. “The rural projects will be executed by the communities and it is owned by them as well. “The Enugu State government paid its counterpart fund. The community paid its own part of the money and the rest money is from World Bank. So, there is need for proper utilisation of the money,’’ he explained. Responding, the Chairman of CPMC of Ezilo Community, Mr Sylvester Eke, noted that his community had not seen pipe borne water even before pre-independence days. The chairman paid glowing tribute to Gov. Ugwuanyi for making it possible for them to have drinkable water. “We trek long distance to get water. Today, we have sign of relief and we commend the World Bank, the Enugu State Government and CSDP for remembering us,’’ Eke said. Dr Nwobodo Agbo, President-General of Amodu community in Nkanu-East Local Government Area, who spoke on-behalf of other communities, lauded the World Bank, the state government and CSDP for funding the projects. Agbo said that it would go a long way to reducing poverty in the area. The five benefiting communities include Ezilo and Umuokorouba communities in Nkanu-West council area as well as Amodu, Ohuani and Isienu communities in Nkanu-East Local council area. The benefiting communities, who received between N1m and N3m each, would be executing projects that include water bore-hole, market, skill acquisition centres, bus-stops and ring road culverts.