By Mohammed Lawal  Zaria    –      An NGO, Arewa Youth Trust Foundation, on Wednesday donated foods and other basic items to the inmates of Zaria Orphanage Home, Tukur-Tukur. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the items included foodstuff, clothing materials and snacks. The Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation, Alhaji Fahad Ahmed-Chikaji, said the gesture was to give the orphans a sense of belonging, especially during this festive season. Ahmed-Chikaji, who is also contesting for the seat of Sabongari state constituency on the platform of the Peoples’ Redemption Party (PRP), said the orphans deserved special consideration by members of the society. “The purpose of the visit is to put smile on the faces of the orphans especially on this festive season of Christmas. “We have been doing this visitation on festive periods like Sallah, Christmas and Easter to see whether there are changes and if there are places where we can come in to assist. “This is a Christmas period and as an NGO, we want the orphans to be part of this celebration, just like any other child living with his or her parents. “We want them to feel good, therefore, we have to embrace them, show them love, care and concern to enable them to feel that the society cares for them. “As people all over the world celebrate Christmas, children with parents will have new clothes and food among others for the festive period. “Unfortunately, those in the orphanages may not have similar privilege, hence the need for the society to do something that would gladden their hearts,’’ Ahmed-Chikaji said. He, therefore, appealed to corporate organisations, NGOs and individuals to come to the aid of the orphans. Responding, the Overseer of the Orphanage Home, Malam Dalhatu Muhammad-Awai, expressed appreciation for the gesture, urging the NGO to sustain the tempo. While describing the NGO as a platform for the orphans to lean on, Muhammad-Awai encouraged the foundation not to relent in its consistent visitations and donations to the home. Muhammad-Awai assured the foundation that the items would be judiciously used for the good of the children. NAN reports that the NGO also visited Muslim Hospital, Danmagaji as well as Anglican Hospital, Wusasa, where they sympathised with sick persons and presented some gifts to them.