By Jessica Dogo Abuja –  The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has called on healthcare workers to improve on current indices in Abuja.
The Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat (HHSS), Malam Adamu Bappah, made the appeal on Tuesday in Abuja at the opening ceremony of a training of capacity building on Integrated Supportive Supervision (ISS) organised by Saving One Million Lives Programme for Results (SOMLforR) under the service.
He said that the criteria for earning money for health under SOMLPfoR was performance, adding that FCT had continuously earned in the last two disbursements thereby maintaining the second time as North Central champions.
He, however, explained that capacity building was very key to improving the performance of the FCT health staff.
He described the ISS as an avenue to improve performance at the facility levels where quality of service would be measured.
He commended the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, who found the training worthy for approval and called on all to be serious so that the approved resources for the training would count.
He urged them to work as a team and explore for better performance and health system under the SOMLPforR programme.
The scribe assured that the implementation of the SOMLforR programme in the FCT Administration.
“I want you all to work as a team by deploying your wealth of experience to support your team mates at all times for the good of FCT Health System and better performance under the SOMLPforR programme.
“I am delighted to be the one declaring open this very important training on Integrated Supportive Supervision (ISS) of the Saving One Million Lives Programme for Result.
“The capacity building is very key to improving the performance of the staff and the criteria for earning money for health under SOMLPfoR is performance.
“I urge you to take this training with all seriousness. Let us make the resources approved for this training count to the last kobo by paying attention and contributing as much as possible.
“I want you all to work as a team deploying your wealth of experience to support your team mates at all times for the overall good of FCT Health System.
“Let me reiterate the commitment of the FCT Administration to the full implementation of the SOMLpforR programme in FCT and thank the national team for their constant support and leadership role,’’ he said.
The National Programme Manager, SOMLforR, Dr Ibrahim Kana, explained that the programme was launched in 2012 due to the poor health outcome in the country.
Kana, who was represented by the North Central Coordinator, Dr Dogara Okara, gave an overview of the programme and said it is estimated that almost 1 million women and children die yearly.
The programme manager said that SOMLforR was to improve maternal and child health, adding that it will save the lives of maternal newborn and child health.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the five-day event is holding at Fresh Land Hotel, Maraba.
The programme would also improve participants understanding of the definition, standards and processes of ISS.
It would also enhance capacity of the FCT Area Councils health personnel to effectively plan and implement ISS.  (NAN)