Igbaugba Ehigimetor  Benin –  The Edo chapter of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), has distanced itself from the purported endorsement of the candidates of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Edo, ahead of the 2019 general elections. The party, in a statement by its State Chairman, Mr Gabriel Oloruntobi, said that the ADP was not party to claims that candidates of 13 political parties had stepped down for Mr Patrick Obahiagbon and Mr Washington Osifo. Obahiagbon is contesting the Edo South Senatorial Seat, while Osifo is eyeing a seat in the Edo House of Assembly. Reports had claimed that the duo got the endorsement on Saturday, after candidates of other political parties agreed to step down for them under the aegis of the Progressives Registered Political Parties (PRPP). Spokesman for the PRPP, Mr Ogbodu Orlando, who is the State Chairman of Independent Democrats (ID), had, at the endorsement venue, claimed that the group was happy to endorse Obahiagbon because he was a “good material”. But the ADP, while dissociating its group from the said endorsement, insisted that Dr. Ese Owie was still its candidate for the Edo South Senatorial seat. “The ADP wishes to restate its total support to the candidacy of Dr. Ese Owie, its standard bearer for the Edo South Senatorial seat. “Owie is an accomplished international trade policy lawyer; he is a social entrepreneur and public intellectual. “Owie brings the imperative cerebral slant and gravitas to the race for the Edo South Seat. “With a proven track record in both the public and private sectors, he stands heads and shoulders above all other contestants,” he said. The party chairman appealed to ADP supporters to disregard the “false rumours” that the party had abandoned its candidate, saying that his rivals were already jittery over his credentials. While asking the APC to apologise for the “false alarm” aimed at misleading the public, the ADP Chairman said that the people should be allowed to decide their Senator based on merit and capacity to deliver.  (NAN)