By Mohammed Lawal  Zaria      –       An NGO, Kaduna State Peace Building Academy says it is planning a peace accord for all candidates seeking elective positions in the state. The Coordinator of the NGO, Mr Daniel Akpan, disclosed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Zaria after a courtesy visit to the District Head of Sabongari, Alhaji Ahmed Bashar-Aminu in Zaria. Akpan said that the peace accord was to get the commitments of all candidates to a hitch-free elections in 2019. “As the 2019 general elections draw nearer, we want the candidates to be involved in the peace-making modalities by drafting a peace accord to facilitate hitch-free elections. “We don’t want a situation where the politicians would use youths to cause trouble during or after the polls. This will help achieve prevailing peace across the state. “We want people, especially politicians, to give us total support and cooperation to enable us actualise our set goals and objectives,’’ the coordinator said. Earlier during the visit, Akpan told the district head that the NGO’s main objective was to be build bridges between people to ensure lasting peace in the state. Akpan said that 10 people had been drafted into the peace-making modalities from the two major faiths – Islam and Christianity- with equal gender representation (five males and five females). He said that the NGO was established to spread the message of peace among the people across the state. According to the coordinator, the visit is meant to secure royal blessings, and solicit support and cooperation from the district head and all village heads under his domain to get the message across. Responding, Bashar-Aminu appreciated the NGO for the visit and assured them of the district’s readiness to give them full support and cooperation to succeed. He said: “this is a very good development; it is part of our work to ensure that peace prevails among the entire people in our respective domain. “Sabongari is a cosmopolitan area; I can testify that it is a mini-Nigeria because almost all tribes in Nigeria can be found here, and that is why we fear the outbreak of any chaos in the area. “Hence the need for us all to embrace peace. “I, therefore, urge you to redouble efforts in that direction and I assure you of our total support and cooperation because peace has been a long tradition of Zazzau Emirate. “It has always been the instructions of the Emir of Zazzau, Dr Shehu Idris that we must make sure that peace prevails in our respective domain by all means. “In line with this mission, the emir established a peace committee at the emirate level and urged all the district and village heads to establish same in their areas,’’ the district head said. Bashar-Aminu urged the NGO to file reports after every enlightenment campaign, which would be forwarded to the Emirate Council for action.