By Deborah Coker  Benin,    –          The Edo Command of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC), says it managed 35 disasters in the last 11 months in the state.
Mr Makinde Ayinla, the State Commandant of the Corps, disclosed this on Tuesday in Benin, at a one-day sensitisation workshop on disaster management organised by the NSCDC for its staff, sister agencies and traders.
Ayinla said within the period, different disasters ranging from road accidents, fire outbreaks, collapsed buildings as well as flood disaster were managed by the command.
“Disaster could be reduced if all proactive measures were taken, and one of such ways was through the sensitisation of the civilian populace with synergy from all stakeholders.
“It is in view of this that this workshop has its theme as: ‘Collective Approach towards Disaster Risk Reduction and Management in Edo.’
“This workshop will help provide knowledge on capacity building towards disaster risk integrated approach on fire prevention,” he explained.
Ayinla noted that the workshop would also help to examine the causes and effects of road crashes on the victims and the society.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that papers were presentated on disaster risk reduction in the state by Mr Victor Nwaubani, Edo Operations Officer, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA).
Nwubani said disaster risk could be avoided if necessary steps were taken to avoid its occurrence.
“In the area of disaster, there is need for every household and motorists to have fire extinguisher.
Government should as a matter of urgency, ensure that every local government headquarters has fire service office,” he said.
Mr Anthony Oko, the Edo Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in delivering a paper on Causes and Effects of Road Crashes, said that road crashes could be avoided if road users were patient with each other on the highways.
“The theme of the workshop is apt in-view of the season, as most road crashes were man-made, hence, the need to sensitise all road users,” he said.