By Nicholas Dechi  Makurdi    –        Gov. Samuel Ortom of Benue has assured residents of adequate security during the yuletide.
This is contained in his Christmas message made available to newsmen by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Terver Akase on Monday in Makurdi.
“As a government, we have provided adequate support to security agencies to ensure that all parts of the state remain crime-free during the Christmas and New Year season.
“I therefore urge you to go about your normal activities without the fear of molestation,” he said.
He said the 2019 Appropriation Bill which was christened “Budget of Peace, Security and Prosperity”, is to enable government achieve its desire of absolute peace in the state.
“Our plan as contained in the 2019 Appropriation Bill is to ensure that the security challenges confronting our people are overcome to pave way for greater development in all sectors of the economy.
“We will not relent in the efforts we are making through the construction of rural roads, health and school facilities, electrification, water supply and other critical infrastructure in various communities of the state.
“We will also sustain payment of salaries as at when due while we source funds to clear arrears.
“In 2019, our country will conduct election to choose leaders at various levels of government. The choices we make during the election will determine how we fare as a country and state in the following years.
“It is therefore important that we make the right decision at the poll,” he said.
Ortom added: ”I urge political parties and their supporters to conduct peaceful and issue-based campaigns to avoid acrimonious engagements which will heat up the polity.
“Let’s remember that we must have a state and its people for us to be called leaders. We must therefore promote decorum and harmony in our campaign speeches and activities, knowing fully well that power belongs to God and He gives it to whomever He wills.
“May this year’s celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ strengthen our faith in the affairs of the state and the country.
“According to the teachings of Jesus our lord, let us embrace peace, harmony, tolerance and show love to one another at this Christmas and carry the same virtues into the coming year,” he said.