By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Leadership of two chambers of the National Assembly on Tuesday waded into the crisis between the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN) and the management of the National Assembly with a promise to address all genuine grievances raised after the picketing embarked upon by PASAN halted all activities of the legislators, including accessing there chambers for law making. Addressing the newsmen after an emergency meeting with the leadership of PASAN and management of the National Assembly led by the Clerk of the Senate, Muhammadu Sani-Omolori, Senate Majority Leader, Senator Ahmed Lawan called on the PASAN to suspend picketing so as to enable the two chambers resume sitting to deliberate on the way forward to resolving the impasse. The leadership of the National Assembly represented by the majority leaders in the two chambers said: ‘’The leadership of the Senate and House of Representatives had a meeting with the leadership of PASAN and the entire focus of the interaction is to listen to the grievances of the PASAN. “Today, we have resolved with the leadership of PASAN to look into all the issues they have raised and all the issues they have raised are genuine and those issues are of concern to us. “As leaders of the National Assembly and in deed as members of the National Assembly, we are interested in seeing our staff that are very well trained, focused and productive. Therefore we identify with those issues raised by PASAN. ”Let me take some of the issues for comments. First of all, for Conless, the position we have taken is to ensure that we look into the implementation of the 28% as agreed in the last 10 years or so. This will be achieved through a tripartite meeting between the leadership of the National Assembly, leadership of PASAN and representation and of course the management of the national Assembly led by the Clerk of the National Assembly (CNA). “We have also agreed to immediately work in the two chambers, to pass the condition of service for PASAN and our people who work here to have better working environment and situation. This we have decided to start immediately from tomorrow, Wednesday that will be in plenary sessions. Having said this, let me also say that we appeal to leadership and followership of PASAN that it will be counter-productive to block the national assembly chambers or stop plenary session from taking place because most of these things we have said we will do, we can only achieve them if we are able to work and allow the environment for conducive interactions between the various stakeholders that are supposed to participate, Lawan said. “It is our assumption that the leadership of PASAN would have passed this information to its followership to allow the National Assembly chambers to operate from tomorrow, Wednesday and of course through Thursday. “We have also agreed that even the other major issues like the reconstitution of the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) will be achieved in the next two days or so before Friday runs out. “This is a reaction that shows clearly that the leadership of the national assembly is committed to what PASAN really believes in. We identify with their grievances, and I want to use this medium and opportunity, on behalf of the leadership of the  National Assembly, to once again appeal that the picketing should be suspended after today so that national Assembly will start to operate to enable its members achieve what we have promised to PASAN through its leadership, he added. On why the leadership of the national assembly allowed the situation to degenerate before it wades into the matter, the Majority Leader of the Senate said: the protest by PASAN is not against the members of the national Assembly, the protest is against the management of the national assembly so it is very important that you get this right. We are only intervening as leaders in the national assembly to ensure that the management of the national assembly and PASAN find a common ground and good climate that will enable us perform our legislative activities. So it is not a protest against us, we are only coming into the picture as an intervention, Lawan said. 