By Abbas Bamalli  Kano    –         No fewer than 5,000 out of the 25,000 teachers sponsored by the Kano State Government to further their studies on inservice are expected to graduate soon. Engr. Aminu Aliyu-Wudil, the Commissioner overseeing the Ministry of Education in the State, Engr. Aminu Aliyu-Wudil disclosed this while briefing newsmen in Kano on Sunday. The commissioner, represented by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Alhaji Danlami Garba spoke on the scheduled activities of the Ministry to mark the 2nd Kano State Basic Education week starting on Monday. According to him, the state government was committed to providing qualitative education, especially at the Foundation level and building the professional capacity of teachers identified as crucial need. “Hence, the government sponsored over 25,000 untrained teachers on in-service to obtain the necessary professional qualification and pedagogical skills. “The meeting is intended to serve as a platform for constructive interface between government and critical probiders and managers of basic education. With a view to creating appreciation of challenges and building a Common front to tackle them, and encourage donour agencies, Philanthropists and private individuals to continue to support the sector”, he said. He added that it was on record that the present administration in the state had recorded tremendous successes in the education sub-sector. According to him, “while recognising the remarkable achievements cutting across all sectors of education in the state, the week has been planned to underscore the critical importance of basic education. Not only as the bedrock of all levels of education, but also affirm the need for community participation which informs the choice of “Education: a basic community responsibilty as the theme of the week”. He said as part of the activities, there would be a distribution of a wide range of instructional materials consisting of over one million text books and laboratory equipment. He further disclosed that during the week long activities, there would be presentation of offer of parmanent and pensionable appointment to 1,196 female holders of Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE), by the State’s First Lady.