By Yemi Adeleye/Oluwafunke Ishola  Lagos –  Dangote Industries Limited (DIL) has received two awards at the 12th edition of the annual Sustainability Enterprise and Responsibility Awards (SERAS). The awards were in recognition of its 2017 Sustainability Report and progress in Sustainability Best Practices and Reporting in 2018. “Two DIL subsidiaries received the SERAS Sustainability Awards for ‘Best Company in Hunger & Food Security’ as well as ‘Best in Supply Chain Management’ categories. “In special recognition of its pioneering Sustainability Journey in 2018, Dangote Group was also named by SERAS one of the Top 5 ‘Most Responsible Business in Africa/Overall Winner.’ “The conglomerate also received two Certificates of Recognition for the work of its Sustainability and Governance Function,’’ said a statement released on Wednesday by Mr Abimbola Akosile of the Corporate Communications Department, of Dangote Group. Akosile said the company was recognised for embedding a culture of sustainability across the Group, tagged “The Dangote Way.” He said: “The Dangote Way underlines the importance of People and Stakeholder Engagement on its journey towards better financial performance through responsible and sustainable business practices. “Dangote’s seven pillars of sustainability include the Economic, Social, Environmental, Financial, Cultural, Operational and Institutional (encompassing Governance, Risk, Compliance).’’ He said these aligned with the GRI Standard, Global Compact, IFC Performance Standards and SDGs, and were designed to ensure sustainability data embedded at the core of business processes and corporate culture. According to him, the founder of SERAS, Dr Ken Egbas, acknowledged the visible and inspiring impact of the Dangote Way. He added that the President of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote had also described the Dangote Way as unique approach towards engendering sustainability across all operations. He said hundreds of employees volunteered to further the Sustainable Development Goals across Dangote Cement Plants in 12 cities across Africa. The countries, he said included Ghana, Congo, Ethiopia, Cameroon, Tanzania, Senegal, Zambia and Nigeria’s Cement plants located at Obajana (Kogi), Ibeshe (Ogun) and Gboko (Benue). (NAN)