By Chimezie Anaso Azia (Anambra) –  Rev. Fr. Hyginus Aghaulor, Chancellor of the Catholic Diocese of Nnewi, says he is delivering free medical care to people of Anambra as part of events marking his 25th priestly ordination.
Aghaulor told journalists on Saturday at Mary The Queen Catholic Church Hall, Azia, Ihiala Local Government Area, venue of the outreach, that he would also sponsor some indigent but intelligent students in the state to enable them pursue their educational career.
The chancellor, who was the Director of Social Communication in the Diocese for many years, decried the high cost of medical care in the country and the number of deaths recorded because people could not afford to pay for basic medical treatment.
He explained that the gesture was to appreciate God who had been so good to him that he had nothing to complain about as a priest.
Aghaulor said the scholarship and the medical outreach were his own way of uplifting humanity apart from giving them sacrament and other spiritual food.
“I decided to do this because I know there are very many people who cannot continue their education not because they are not bright enough but because they are handicapped financially.
“The same is applicable to many indigent people who are gambling with their health just because they cannot buy cards in the hospital not to talk about being able to pay the medical bills.
“We decided to give hope to the hopeless because we know that all is not lost, most of the drugs that are administered to the people were imported from USA.
“I thank God for doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other professionals in the medical world who decided to partner with us on this programme aimed at alleviating the suffering of downtrodden.
“Indigent students from within and outside Anambra were interviewed on Dec. 8; the successful ones would get scholarship,” he said.
Also speaking, the leader of the medical outreach, Dr Asompta Ikenna, said malaria, hypertension, malnutrition, eye problems, diabetics, arthritis and upper respiratory infections were the major ailments diagonised.
Ikenna underscored the need for Nigerians to embrace regular medical checkups for early detection of medical conditions that could become life threatening much later.
She urged people to use the little resources at their disposal to eat balanced diet, reduce intake of salt and ensure they slept under mosquito nets.
“I urge all other affluent persons to borrow a leaf from Fr. Hyginus who in special way is alleviating the suffering of the masses,” she said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Aghaulor, who was ordained in 1993, at various times studied in Italy, Germany and USA, and speaks Igbo, English, French, Italian and German languages fluently.
The Silver Jubilee Mass would hold at Mary The Queen Catholic Church, Azia, on Dec. 26. (NAN)