By Mohammed Lawal  Makarfi (Kaduna state) –  Makarfi Local Government Council in Kaduna State on Tuesday distributed an ambulance to each of its 10 primary healthcare centres at the ward levels. Speaking at the distribution ceremony held at the council secretariat, the wife of Kaduna State Governor, Hajiya A’isha El-Rufa’i lauded the foresight of the council administration. She appealed to other council chairmen in the state to emulate the kind gesture exhibited by the chairman to improve the lot of their people. The governor’s wife said that the provision of health facilities had remained one of the priorities of the present administration of the state. She pleaded with those saddled with the responsibility of handling the ambulances to justify the confidence reposed in them for the vehicles to last long. “I also want to call on women to take advantage of the vehicles to improve their health status and that of their children,” she said. On her malnutrition programme, the governor’s wife said that so many children that had benefited from the scheme across the state. The Council Chairman, Alhaji Kabiru Mu’azu-Mayere said his administration had placed more emphasis on education and health, hence the decision to embark on such projects. “Actually, we are encouraged by the Kaduna State Government, considering its efforts in the area of health and education. “In line with this, about 65 students of this local government had gained admission into Federal University, Dutsinma, Katsina State and they will be awarded full scholarship for their studies. “We are short of medical doctors, engineers, pharmacists and so on; therefore, of the 65 students on scholarship, we will prioritise science courses. “On the ambulances, we have made adequate provision to take care of the vehicles in all ramifications and each of the 10 primary healthcare centres will get one.” He said that the council would also donate 200 rims for the construction of culverts across the local governments. Earlier, the Executive Secretary, Primary Healthcare Agency, Hajiya Hadiza Balarabe stressed the need for the committees constituted for maintaining the vehicles to be just and transparent. Balarabe, who was represented by Alhaji Hamza Ibrahim-Ikara, Director, Primary Healthcare, described the efforts of the chairman as unique and encouraging. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Balarabe is also the running-mate to Gov. Nasiru El-Rufa’i in the 2019 governorship election.  (NAN)