By Rukayat Adeyemi  Lagos   –        The National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) has decried the prevalence of unapproved and substandard schools in the country. Chief Yomi Otubela, the Deputy National President, NAPPS, made the remarks in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Tuesday. Otubela said that a lot of schools in the country were operating below minimum standard, saying that many of the schools were not NAPPS members. He expressed disappointment over some groups parading themselves as an association of unapproved schools, saying that it was unfortunate that these schools were accorded attention by the government. The NAPPS boss urged owners of unapproved schools to set a deadline to get their schools approved. Otubela said that over 75 per cent of schools belonging to its members were approved, saying that efforts were ongoing to get approval for the few yet-to-be-approved member schools. “We are still battling with many schools that are either not approved or are operating below standard. “It is our prayer that the government will be ready one day to work with us so that we can fine-tune and find a way out of the problem,’’ he said. According to him, many of our active members have tremendously improved the way they run their schools. Otubela said this was because they were regularly trained during seminars and conferences by a good number of quality facilitators. He said that while NAPPS was seen as an association of approved schools; it also accommodated schools that had yet to be approved. Otubela, however, said that the unapproved members were placed under the mentorship of those that were approved, until they are approved. “Those of our members who have yet to be approved are in that category due to the timeline on issue of permanent or adequate site. “Meanwhile, we are working with some financial institutions to provide these schools long-term loans to meet the criteria for a permanent site,’’ he said. Otubela said that NAPPS would continue to sensitise the government, public and parents on the need to patronise approved schools for optimum security of pupils and maintain high educational standard.