Abuja(SundiataPost) –Mrs Hadiza Sabo, President, Association of Commodity Market Women and Men of Nigeria (ACMWAMN) Nasarawa State Chapter, on Friday, warned politicians against dumping traders after elections. Sabo made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Friday, on the sidelines of the 10th Annual General Meeting of the association held in Lafia. She said that traders must not be seen as expendables to be dumped after coming into office. According to her, the market association has evolved over the years to become more dignified, after conscious efforts at re-branding and repackaging, to meet up with the social and economic needs of the society. Sabo said that the association had competent people, who were capable of making positive contributions to the society politically, if given the opportunity. “Here we have Ph.D, Masters Degree, first degree holders, among others. “Politician should see us as partners; they should not use us during elections and dump us after winning. “Just as we have numerical strength to influence an election, so also we are capable of holding political offices if the opportunity is provided,” she said. She added that the association had sustainable plans of training the members in different skills to improve their capacity, under her leadership. “Those that did not have opportunity to acquire formal education when they were young were enrolled into adult education. “Now, they can conveniently read and write, sign their names; and above all, their communication skills have improved,” she said. Sabo also commended Gov, Umaru Al- Makura of Nasarawa and his wife, Salamatu Al- Makura, for their developmental efforts in the areas of roads construction, establishment of modern markets and skills acquisition centres for women. Similarly, President of Nigeria Union of Journalist (NUJ), Nasarawa State Chapter, Comrade Dogo Shamma, commended the market association for its contributions towards the economic growth of the State. Dogo, represented by the union’s General Secretary, Comrade Musa Usman, urged the association to see the media as partners in progress. NAN