By Hamza Suleiman  Maiduguri   –      The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday, said it had recorded 200 cases of human rights violation in Borno in the past three months.
Mr Tony Ojukwu, NHRC’s Executive Secretary, made the disclosure at a symposium organised to commemorate the 2018 Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Maiduguri.
Ojukwu, represented by Ms Jummai Mshelia, disclosed that 70 of the 200 cases had been resolved by the commission.
He listed some of the cases to include sexual abuse, child molestation, gender based violence, torture and extra judicial killings.
Ojukwu attributed the high rate of abuses in the state to the Boko Haram insurgency.
The secretary noted that the Boko Haram insurgency in the northeast coupled with incessant farmer-herdsmen clashes compounded the challenges experienced by the people and exposed them to displacements.
He said: “If people cannot farm due to insurgency and herders and farmers clashes, famine may be likely in the near future. There is a need to act now.
“In Nigeria, cases of extra judicial killings, kidnapping, assault, sexual violence, enforced disappearance, torture, inhuman and degrading treatments are reported daily.
“Poverty, hunger and unemployment have continued to increase in geometric progression forcing a good number of our youths who migrated to Libya and European countries end up as prostitute or become victims of modern day slavery.
“A good number of citizens in the country had no access to healthcare, decent housing and potable drinking water, which is a negative pointer of life expectancy.”
Also, Michelle Bachelet, The UN Commissioner for Human Rights, emphasised that everyone was entitled to all forms of freedom devoid of race, colour, language, political inclinations and other opinions.
Represented by Peter Mefor, the UN Human Right Officer in Borno, Bachelet lamented that millions of people suffered violation of their fundamental rights daily basis in the world.
Bachelet called on people to defend their rights, speak for the weak and vulnerable.
“Recognition of the inherent dignity, equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world,” she said.