By Victor Adeoti  Iwo    –      No fewer than 60 youths were trained in agriculture and vocational skills in Osun by Total Upstream Companies. The youths were trained under a programme tagged “TOTALPreneur” at OFFERCentre Institute of Agriculture, Olupona in Iwo Local Government Area of Osun. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 10 additional youths were also trained in vocational skills by EKIMIKS Nigeria Ltd. at the Institute. Speaking at the graduation ceremony of the youths at the Institute on Wednesday, Mr Nicolas Terraz, the Total Managing Director, said the 60 trained youths were drawn from the six geo-political zones of the country and trained for three months. Terraz said 30 of the youths were trained in fish farming, crop production, animal husbandry. among others. He explained that the remaining 30 were trained in vocational education such as arts and crafts, catering and hotel management. Represented by Mr Vincent Nnadi, Executive General Manager of Total, Terraz said the youths were also trained in Entrepreneurship, Business Management, Computer Science, Accounting and Marketing. Terraz, who noted that the graduating students were the third set to be trained, said a total of 120 youths had passed through the training since inception. He said that the essence of the training was to transform the youth from job seekers and dependants to entrepreneurs and employers of labour. Terraz said the youths were also supported with CAC registration, starter’s pack, equipment and materials to enable them to start business. Also speaking, Dr Sanginga Netanya, the Director-General of International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), urged the trained youths to make use of the opportunity given to them to better their lives. Mr Tope Miriki, the Chief Executive Officer of EKIMIKS, said the training given to the youth was enough to take them out of poverty, urging them to embrace self- employment. Macarius Olatunji, the Rector of the institute, in his remarks, said the centre had been training young farmers since 2016 and young caterers since 2010. Olatunji said the youth were taken through the totality of agricbusiness as well as catering, hospitality and crafts. Earlier in his remarks, Mr Sunday Atoyebi, the Osun State Director of Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, said the training of the youth was in line with green alternative programme of the ministry. Atoyebi said training of youths in agriculture was the best way to take them out of poverty.