By Hassana.Yakubu Kaduna –  Mr Adamu Yusuf, the Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists,  Kaduna State Council, has been returned unopposed for another three years in office. Yusuf was sworn in on Saturday alongside four other  executive members, Zainab Aliyu, who was returned unopposed as Auditor, Noah Ebije, Financial Secretary; Femi Adi,  Secretary; and Shindong Bala to serve as the Assistant Secretary. In his inaugural speech, Yusuf  said that  the re-election did not  call for celebration. ” It is a gathering of mature minds,  watch dogs as the mirror of the society to   rethink on how NUJ, Kaduna Council, would  reoccupy its enviable position as a pacesetter in the practice of journalism, especially in northern Nigeria. “It  is a collective responsibility for all of us to do whatever possible to move the council forward and maintain that pride. “I am optimistic that the newly- inaugurated executive members would open up windows of opportunities for our members to excel in all aspects of journalism profession,” he said. According to him, the priority of the executive will be to ensure welfare of its members. ” Our welfare policy will, by the Grace of God, improve, and we all have to pray God to give us a state chief executive and president that will work with NUJ in the year 2019.” He said that the NUJ would collaborate with development partners on training and retraining of its members.  “,Already , some partners have indicated interest to build the capacity of our members. “As you are aware, there are a lot of window opportunities out there waiting to be explored. ” I believe that 2019 is a year for capacity building  and welfarism.” The Zonal Vice President of the NUJ, Comrade Yusuf Idris, who presented the certificate of return to the chairman, congratulated him for returning unopposed for the second time. Idris said: ” This is a testimony to the fact that he has done well and will continue doing well. It shows that he is popular. “As a member of this council, I am confident that this team will take Kaduna Council to enviable heights,” he said. He prayed God to give the executive the wisdom to lead the council well.  (NAN)