By Ruth Oketunde   Abuja   –       The Moole Charity Foundation on Monday said it would screen 10,000 Nigerians across the federation for hypertension, diabetes, hepatitis B and hepatitis C diseases.
Dr Olalekan Ogungbemi, Founder of the foundation, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja.
Ogungbemi said that the screening was part of activities to mark the ninth edition of the foundation’s pet project, tagged “Project Silent Killer’’.
He said that the project would be done in collaboration with “Abuja 500’’, an Abuja-based marketing and fun-fair event agency.
According to Ogungbemi, the choice of organising the screening alongside ‘Abuja 500’ is informed by the large crowd that “Abuja 500’’ usually attracts.
He said that the foundation would take advantage of the crowd to screen people.
“This is the ninth edition of Project Silent killer, and we are conducting free screening on hypertension, diabetes, HIV, malaria, yellow fever and hepatitis B and C, respectively.
“In this particular edition, we are targeting 10,000 Nigerians to be screened from across the states of the federation.
“We will begin with Lagos, Calabar, Kogi, Kaduna, Port Harcourt and the Federal Capital Territory.
“We are happy because so far we have been able to screen people and we detected a lot of cases of malaria, high blood pressure, diabetes and so on.
“Two persons, who tested positive to HIV virus were given referral letters to health facilities for onward treatment,” he said.
The founder added that the organisation decided to give free yellow fever vaccine to complement Federal Government efforts in curtailing the outbreak of diseases.
Ogunbemi stressed that the foundation would not rest in its effort of ensuring that preventable diseases were wiped out in the country.
He advised Nigerians to go for regular medical check-up so as to ascertain their health status.
NAN reports that Moole Charity Foundation is currently championing the course of addressing public health challenges such as healthcare, illiteracy and unemployment in Nigeria.