Olawale Akinremi  Ibadan   –      Alhaji Suleiman Apanpa, the President of a Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan, on Tuesday dissolved a 13 year-old marriage between Anu Morakinyo and Toheeb Morakinyo over infidelity and habitual wife battering. Apanpa said it was only ungodly for men like Morakinyo to endanger their wives’ lives by beating them. “In the interest of peaceful living, the 13 year-old union between Anu and Toheeb has ceased to be henceforth. “The custody of the first two children produced by the union is awarded to Toheeb while Anu shall take the last because of his age. “Furthermore, Toheeb shall pay a monthly feeding allowance of N4, 000 for the child’s upkeep in addition to being responsible for his education and other welfare,” the Arbitrator said. Earlier, Anu a resident of Molete-Bode area of Ibadan, had said that her husband ruined their marriage with infidelity. “Anytime I am out of the house looking for daily bread, Toheeb is busy on his mission of infidelity with our landlord’s daughter. “When he started sleeping with our landlord’s daughter, he stopped fending for the three children and I. “Worst still; Toheeb began to beat the hell out of me if I dare complain about is misconduct. “In fact, he usually beat me after I deliver a new baby. “Despite the fact that our landlord knew that my husband was sleeping with his daughter, he pretended as if nothing was happening. “Moreover, Toheeb sent me a text message that he has concluded all arrangement of how to eliminate me from this world. “Recently after Toheeb had inflicted varying degrees of injuries on me through beating, I invited the police and he escaped through the window However, the police arrested the landlord’s daughter who might know his whereabouts. “He is even addicted to Indian Hemp and other alcoholic drinks. Anu, who tendered a picture of where she was battered and bruised, by Toheeb, described him as a wicked husband. The respondent who did not oppose the suit also did not deny the allegations leveled against him. Toheeb, who combines pastoral work with mechanic work, said that it was true that he beats his wife but that his action was prompted by Anu’s infidelity as well. “The very first time I beat Anu was when I caught her with a man on our matrimonial bed, but that man escaped.The second time I beat her was when Anu used police to arrest my mother. “She is such a difficult woman and I also have evidence of where Anu has stabbed me,” Toheeb said. In her own testimony, Anu’s mother said that her son in-law was such an ingrate and irresponsible husband. The woman, who simply identified herself as “Iya iyawo, said “I took charge of all responsibilities when my daughter had her three children, because Toheeb did nothing. “Despite my effort after Toheeb and his wife had some misunderstanding, one day, he came to our home to beat Anu and her father.”