By Mohammed Lawal  Zaria   –       Rev. Olasupo Ayokunle, President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), says the attitude of Nigerian politicians was critical to successful and peaceful conduct of the 2019 general elections. Ayokunle stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sideline of a one-day “End of the Year Encounter with God Convention”. The convention was organised by the 1st Baptist Church, Sabon Gari, Zaria, Kaduna State. Ayokunle said if the politicians, especially the leaders, want peace to prevail, it would prevail. He noted that the masses do not take up arms against each other without the politicians using them for their selfish interest. “Therefore, we are appealing to them to put the interest of the nation above their personal interest, so that we can continue to live in peace,“he said. The president noted that protests were averted in 2015 elections because votes by the electorate counted and its outcome widely accepted. Ayokunle said that the then President wholeheartedly accepted defeat by coming out to congratulate the President-elect. “We don’t want a system where law enforcement agencies would be intimidating electorate, intimidating election observers or whatever. “We want a system where the election umpire themselves, the INEC will allow votes to count, they should not allow any manipulation in any form that will make desperate politicians to have their way,” he said. On CAN activities, Ayokunle said the association required total overhauling to pave way for only genuine Christians to lead the association. “We want the association to be led by only genuine Christians not the people who will be there raising false acquisitions and causing trouble. “Not people who cannot stay within the fold and resolve their differences but to create a negative public opinion against the leadership in the media only to settle their scores. He assured that the association would work with the religious bodies to ensure that people coming to work with CAN at the national level would be people the blocks canvassed for. Ayokunle said there would be an interview on Dec. 10 to select the leadership of the association to avoid bringing fake Christians to lead CAN.