By Chimezie Anaso Awka –   More Nigerians on Tuesday paid tributes to the memory of Mr Sunday Ajayi, the Federal Road Safety (FRSC) in Anambra, who died in a ghastly crash on Dec. 15. Some of those who made their feelings known visited the FRSC Command Headquarters in Awka where they signed a condolence register opened for late Ajayi. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent, who visited the headquarters FRSC,on Tuesday, reports that the mood was solemn among officers and men of the command. Mr Isyaku Yusuf, the State Director of Department of State Services (DSS) in his tribute, said he was yet to come to terms with the sudden death of Ajayi. “God knows all, may your soul rest in the bossom of the Lord,” Yusuf stated. On his part, Mr Dele Momodu, Director of NDLEA in Anambra, described Ajayi as a dear friend. “My Almighty Allah grant your soul eternal rest and give fortitude to your family to bear the loss.’’ Mr Kehinde Aremu, Director, NYSC in Anambra, noted that late Ajayi pursued road safety issues with uncommon vigour and regretted that he lost his life in a road crash. Aremu, who described the death of Ajayi to road accident as `an irony,’ bade farewell to the deceased. “You were an amiable friend of NYSC, we love you but God loves you more, goodnight Sunday,” he noted. In his tribute, Dr Nkwachukwu Orji, Resident Commissioner of INEC in Anambra, said Ajayi was an active Inter-Agency Consultative Forum in the state. Orji said, “we will miss you, your death is a collective loss to us, God will console your family, colleagues and friend,” he said. Dr Dave Ugonna, Chairman of Heads of Federal Establishments and Parastatals Forum in Anambra, said Ajayi would be surely missed. “You were such a good, dedicated, disciplined, humble and tactful officer. “Your tenure in Anambra as Sector Commander earned a new face in road safety management, we will surely miss you,” he said. Other people who visited include Assistany Corps Marshal (ACM) Keneth Nwegbe, Commander in Charge of FRSC Training and Mr Ifeatu Onejeme, Commissioner for Finance in Anambra. (NAN)