By Rukayat Adeyemi  Lagos –  The Lagos State University (LASU) on Monday inaugurated an eight-member Board of Health to improve the quality of medical services in the university. Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, Vice-Chancellor of the university, at the inauguration ceremony, said there was need to re-organise the university’s health centre for proper coordination, hence the setting up of the board. Fagbohun said this became necessary because the university’s health centre was operating below expectation and the newly inaugurated board was expected to revamp the unit. “Management is aggressively desirous of a board of health that will be highly responsible to all its stakeholders and so you have a daunting task on your hands. “We expect the board members to be actively involved in the running of the health centre. “This is to ensure that all errors are corrected, necessary things are put in place and the centre works as an `autopilot’ and seamlessly,’’ he said. Fagbohun named Prof. Rasheedat Akinola of the Department of Radiology as the Chairman of the eight-member board. He mandated them to put things in order and start delivering world class health services to members of university community within three months. The vice -chancellor lauded the caliber of members of the board, describing them as scholars with high level of integrity and technical understanding of the issue at hand. Prof. Olumuyiwa Noah, Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academic), said that while the task assigned to the board may seem easy, it is not cheap because expectations from the management and the university community were high. Noah prayed for the success of the board and charged the members to work hard to revive the unit and improve on its standards. Responding, Prof. Akinola, Chairman of the board, thanked the university’s management for recognising their capabilities. He, on behalf of the other members of the board, accepted to take up the task and serve with deep commitment, passion and humility to achieve result. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that other members of the board were Prof. S. A Ogun (Department of Medicine), Prof. Bidemi Idowu (Human Kinetics, Sports and Health Education) and Dr A Adeniran (Community Health and Primary Health Care). Others were Dr Samuel Idowu, Acting Director Health Services, Dr Oluwafemi Obayori, Department of Microbiology, Mr Adekunle Olori, Senior Assistant Registrar and a representative of the University’s Congregation, Mrs Akuwa Akran – Olaleye. (NAN)