By Aisha Gambo  Kaduna   –     The Nigerian Air Force (NAF), on Monday started a five-day inter-school sports, quiz and debate competitions for 2018/2019 academic session at Air Force Comprehensive School, Kaduna. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 772 participants from 13 schools across the country are to participate in the competitions; the 10th edition organised by NAF since 1991. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Abubakar Sadique, who was represented by AVM Kingsley Lar, said that the competitions would provide an opportunity for overall development of students’ learning. “The veritable means of sustaining the high standard of our school, realising the requirements for effective training and innovation as embedded in the Air Force schools’ vision is the incorporation of sporting, quiz and debating programmes into the school’s curriculum ‘’, he said. Sadique noted that the quiz and debate competitions would afford students the opportunity to develop strategic logical thinking, grammar and spelling skills necessary for the development of cognitive domain. The Chief of Air Staff said that the sporting activities would help maintain the physical fitness and also served as means of interaction among students from different states. He reiterated NAF’s determination to support teaching and learning in a conducive atmosphere, urging school heads to promote academic activities. Earlier, the Director of Education, NAF Headquarters, Grp. Capt. Sobir Adeniyi, said that the idea of the event was to foster unity, enhance team work, determination and perseverance toward achieving set objectives. Adeniyi said that apart from improving students’ fitness, it was expected that the participants would also develop the spirit of sportsmanship that would make them compete and accept the outcome of the competitions. “The event will teach participants that success and failure are part of life. It will teach them the act of sharing, dealing with problems collectively by helping each other in crucial situations,’’ he said.