By Lucy Osuizigbo   Lagos    –        A national leader of All Progressives’ Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has congratulated former Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Chairman, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, for winning the Global Lifetime Award for Anti-corruption. Tinubu, in a letter on Sunday in Lagos, described the award as a testament to Ribadu’s dedication in fighting corruption. The award administered by Doha, Qatar-based think tank, Rule of Law and Anti-corruption Centre (ROLACC), celebrates corruption fighters, academics and campaigners from around the world. It was conferred on Ribadu at a ceremony held over the weekend at the Putrajaya International Convention Centre in Malaysia. In the letter entitled: ‘Global Lifetime Award for Anti-Corruption’, the APC leader reminded Ribadu that his work was not finished yet and that he still had much to give Nigeria and the world. The letter read in part: ”The award is a testament to your singular dedication in fighting corruption in order to make ours a more excellent country and to restore our national reputation. ”The award shows that a person of integrity and commitment can make a difference and indeed be successful without sacrifice of principle or ethics. ”In recognition of your intrepid work as the first chairman of EFCC and for your contributions to good governance and anti-corruption worldwide, the award was more than warranted.” Tinubu said the award was richly deserved, while describing Ribadu as personification of Nigeria’s best. The former Lagos State governor recalled that as EFCC chairman, Ribadu erected the necessary law enforcement architecture for the fight against corruption. ”The excellence and importance of your work is recognised by President Muhammadu Buhari, who has carried on the anti-corruption campaign with zeal and determination by further strengthening the EFCC and making the anti-corruption fight a pillar of his administration. “With this award, you make your fellow Nigerians proud, because the award is also a recognition that we are a land of intelligent and honourable people and that corruption is not intrinsic in our national character. ” With the award you also secure your place among the most respected anti-corruption fighters and law enforcement figures in the world,” Tinubu said. He, however, urged Ribadu to also remember what, according to him, the award does not say. Tinubu said, while the award recognises the recipient for work excellently done, it does not mean that his work is at all finished. ”You still have much to give Nigeria and the world. ” Your unique expertise and compassion for our people means you must continue to help build progressive good governance so that our people may soon have the just and prosperous nation they deserve. “Continue to be a leader of resolve and a role model to the next generation,” Tinubu added.