By Rita Iliya Minna –   Gov. Abubakar Bello of Niger has urged the people of the state to vote massively for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 presidential election. Bello also urged them to re-elect him as the Governor of the state in 2019. He also called on them to elect all other All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates in the state during the polls. He made the call during the 2019 APC governoship election campaigns/ stakeholders briefing organised by Abubakar Sani Bello (ASB) Campaign Organisation in Minna on Monday. The governor explained that the president and other members of the APC deserved second term given the tremendous achievements recorded in infrastructure development, improved electricity, provision of basic health care and qualitative education. He described health and education as critical sectors needed for human development and pledged to improve investment in the sectors if re-elected. “I solicit the support of our people to come out en masse and support the re-election of the President, myself as the governor of our dear state, our senators, members of House of Representatives and state House of Assembly and the local government chairmen. “This is to enable us to complete what we have started on infrastructure development across the state such as roads construction and rehabilitation within some major cities in the state. “We shall continue partnership with our local and foreign farmers to improve agriculture production and ensure food security in the state as well as the country and strengthening of women organisations to be self-sufficient,” he said. Bello said he had directed the state Ministry of Education and the state Universal Basic Education (SUBEB) to introduce skills acquisition in primary and secondary schools to enable the pupils to learn skills to become self-sufficient. He advised youths to desist from anti-social behaviours that could destroy the society, but engage themselves in meaningful trades. Earlier, Alhaji Yusuf Suleiman, Director-General of ASB Campaign Organisation, said that the essence of the stakeholders’ briefing was to reassess the potentials of the present administration and re-position it for the forth coming general elections. He added that the briefing would further demonstrate the party’s commitment.  (NAN)