By Amen Gajira  Rafi    –     The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), on Tuesday distributed food items to no fewer than 67 households displaced by flood in Niger. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agency presented the food items to the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) at Babban Gona Community in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State. Mr Mustapha Maihaja, the Director-General of NEMA, said that the exercise was a follow-up to the distribution of relief materials flagged off by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, in the state in September. NAN reports that the items comprised 25kg bag of rice, 4kg bag of sugar, 12kg bag of beans, 12kg bag of maize, 5 litres of vegetable oil, a packet of maggi and beverages for each of the 67 households. Maihaja who was represented by Suleiman Mohammed, Team Leader of NEMA Emergency Operation Centre for Niger, Kwara and Kebbi, said the agency was committed to ensuring IDPs had some of their basic needs. He noted that the distribution was part of the agency’s intervention to bring succour to the IDPs, following one of the most devastating flood disasters in the country. “We are here to distribute relief materials to flood victims in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger. “We share your pain but the truth is that we can never bring back all that you have lost to the flood disaster. “We can only offer assistance and pray this kind of disaster does not happen again,’’ the NEMA boss said, He said that building materials as well as farm implements and seedlings would also be provided to the affected victims soon. “Apart from what we are giving you today, we would give you building materials to reconstruct your houses. “We as well have assistance for farmers in the form of seedlings and farming implements,’’ Maihaja said. One of the beneficiaries who spoke with NAN, Nuhu Ali, commended the Federal Government for coming to their rescue. “I must confess that this government is a people-oriented government that has the interest of the masses at heart. “These items NEMA has given us today will last me and my family for at least one month; so I can’t but thank them, ‘’ Ali said. Another beneficiary, Rakiya Usman, said the food items were a huge relief to her family as the family had suffered for long. “We have been through untold hardship since that flood disaster. “We pray that God will grant the Federal Government the will and resources to do more for us in future, ‘’ Usman said. NAN reports that NEMA had in November distributed relief materials to 172 households displaced by flood in Shiroro and Bosso Local Government Areas.