By Ahmed Ubandoma Abuja –  The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has urged the women’s wing of All Progressives Congress (APC) to always educate Nigerians about the achievements of the Buhari administration. Mrs Buhari gave the appeal at the First APC National Women Leadership and Project 4+4 Women Ambassadors Summit 2018 on Tuesday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Project 4+4 Buhari/Osinbajo 2019 was initiated by the Buhari/Osinbajo supporters to actualise the re-election of the duo in the 2019 elections. “ I wish to call on women to spread the good news and accomplishments of the present administration. “I also call on you to propagate our party manifesto which promises to change the lives of Nigerians and what it has achieved so far,’’ she said. She called on women not to relent in their effort at sensitising and mobilising women to ensure the success of the party in the 2019 elections. Mrs Buhari said with commencement of campaign for the 2019 elections, the key areas for APC women would be critical information sharing, security awareness and advocacy against vote buying. She said that the summit had set the tune for Buhari/Osinbajo support groups to go on with the 2019 campaign. The wife of the president, therefore, appealed to participants drawn from the 774 local government areas of the country to reflect on the achievements of the Buhari administration. In her contributions, the wife of Vice-President, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, said that the APC government had performed creditably in the fight against insurgency and the rebuilding and rehabilitation of victims of insurgency and their communities. On her part, the Senior Special Assistant to the President, Dr Hajo Sani, urged women to be resilient in the effort to ensure the re-election of Buhari/Osinbajo in the 2019 election. According to her, women are convinced that the Buhari administration had completed and initiated new road projects as well as other infrastructure development s across the country. Sani restated the commitment of the wife of the President to better the lives of women and children through gender balancing in Nigeria. Also, the former Deputy Governor of Plateau, Mrs Pauline Tallen, appealed to Nigerian women to give the Buhari/Osinbajo a chance in the 2019 elections to consolidate on their achievements. Tallen urged APC women to show determination in their quest to ensure the re-election of Buhari/Osinbajo for the brighter future of the Nigerian child. Earlier, the APC National Woman Leader, Hajiya Salamatu Baiwa, urged APC women to shun campaign of calumny. According to her, APC has performed creditably, especially in the areas of infrastructure, fight against insurgency, corruption and social investment programme. She, therefore, called on the APC women to make their campaign to be issue-based ahead of 2019 rallies (NAN).