By Amen Gajira  Minna   –    The Niger Government has approved over N10billion for the construction and rehabilitation of some roads in the state. The Commissioner for Works and Infrastructural Development, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe, disclosed this on Thursday to newsmen after the end of the meeting of the state executive council in Minna. He said, “Nine memoranda were considered and approved by the executive council. “And these have to do with the construction and rehabilitation of some selected roads in the state,” he said. Balarabe said that the state government was taking advantage of the dry season to execute the projects. “The state of some of these township roads has been begging for attention for a very long time. “This time around, the state government took it upon itself to address that critical infrastructure.’’ He said that the Kontagora-Tegina road, a Federal Government road, was in a deplorable condition. He added that if it is not rehabilitated, motorists would not be able to ply it during next year’s raining season. “Therefore, the need to address that situation becomes very expedient now because we are in the dry season of the year. “We have between now and next March to embark on any serious construction project,” he said. NAN reports that the roads earmarked for rehabilitation and construction include: Zungeru township roads; Kagara township roads; the upgrade and asphalt overlay of some roads in Kontagora. Others are the Mokwa township roads; the road from Erena Bridge to Erena town; and some roads in Minna. He also said that the state government had given approval for the electrification of Kontagora-Rijau at the cost of N487 million as well as the extension of 33KV line from Gidan Mangoro to Ibeto at the cost of N97million respectively. The commissioner said that the Abubakar Bello-led administration was committed to infrastructural development in the state. He said that this would be implemented in line with improvement in the state’s internally generated resources (IGR).