By Babatunde Ogunrinde  Lagos   –        Remi Aboderin, President, West African Boxing Union (WABU), on Tuesday extolled Multichoice Nig. Ltd., the organisers of GOtv Boxing Night, saying the company had taken boxing to another level. Aboderin told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that the company deserved great commendation for their investment in boxing as it had given hope to many youths with boxing talents. He added that they had lived up to expectations as GOtv Boxing Night 17 takes centre stage with a world title fight. GOtv Boxing Night 17 will hold on Dec. 28 at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos. He described the forthcoming World Boxing Federation (WBF) Intercontinental Super Featherweight title bout, as a “big indication of the revival of Nigerian boxing”. Aboderin, who doubles as the Secretary-General, Nigerian Boxing Board of Control (NBB of C), said that GOtv Boxing had continued to provide the platform for home grown talents to excel since 2014. “I am very proud of the development GOtv Boxing Night has brought to our loving sport; come Dec. 28, we will twines another boxing fiasco showcasing the best local and international talents. “The World title bout between Nigeria’s Seun “The Machine” Wahab and Tanzania’s Issa “Peche Boy” Nampepeche in the WBF Intercontinental Super Featherweight is a great indication that we have fully developed. “Some four years ago, we could not have imagined that a prestigious title bout such as this will take place in the country, as the fortunes of boxing locally had plummeted. “It is worthy of note that the WBF Intercontinental title is just a tier below the world title in category. It puts the winner in the frame for the world title. “This demonstrates how far GOtv Boxing Night, which began in 2014, has brought boxing,” Aboderin said. NAN reports that the show will also see U.S.-based Nigerian, Oluwafemi “The Eagle” Oyeleye take on Meshack “Smart Boy” Mwankemwa of Tanzania in an international light middleweight challenge clash. Similarly scheduled to be in action are an array of big names on the domestic scene, led by Olaide “Fijaborn” Fijabi, who will take on Yusuf Mufutau in a national light Welterweight challenge. In the same category is reigning African Boxing Union (ABU) lightweight champion, Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph, who fights Hammed “Ese” Hammed Ganiyu. National Lightweight champion, Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu takes on Mubarak Hamzat. The show will equally see some of the brightest young talents take to the ring. Ebubechukwu “Coded Man” Eze, a graduate of GOtv Boxing NextGen Search I, will take on Femi “Small Tyson” Akintayo in a middleweight clash. In the Bantamweight division, Opeyemi “Sense” Adeyemi, Best Boxer at GOtv Boxing Night 4, will be up against Jamiu Dada. The best boxer at the event, which will be aired live on SuperSport to viewers in 47 African countries, will go home with a cash prize of N1.5 million attached to the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial Trophy. The fight night will also feature live musical performances by Burna Boy, Wande Coal, Teni da Entertainer and Daddy Showkey, a boxing enthusiast.