By Uwumarogie Peter   Gombe   –     Fun seekers in Gombe metropolis celebrating Christmas are lamenting the non-availability of recreational parks and gardens in the town. Speaking to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Gombe on Tuesday, they said the absence of such facilities had been making it impossible to celebrate festivities adequately. Mr James Uchenna, a trader at Gombe Main Market noted that Gombe, which is a reference point in the North-East, was not supposed to lack such facilities that attracted people. “ Gombe town is centrally important, especially in the North-East; it is not supposed to lack recreational facilities that bring people together. “ During festive periods like this, we just stay at home, doing nothing. “When we call our friends in other towns and they scream to our hearing that they are having fun in a garden or park, it kills our joy here,’’ he lamented. Elizabeth Dariye, N-power beneficiary in Gombe, said the absence of a park was the reason why people were always scanty in Gombe town during Christmas, adding that there was no reason to stay. “ I will be travelling tomorrow. This is not because Gombe is not okay for me, but there is no park where you can meet people and make friends. “When you go to Jos, there are no dull moments for fun seekers. You can go swimming, playing music in garden, meet people of funny characters. That’s what drives happiness in any city,’’ she said. Hannatu Adamu, a housewife, said she was not happy with the lack of such facilities, adding that it was for same reason that many people go to their villages during Christmas. “ People love nature. No one will say he or she hates nature. So when you do not have such place to feed your eyes and relax your minds, then travelling becomes desirable. “Most people who go to villages do so because there is no place to relax and have fun in Gombe. “Sadly this year, I do not have money to travel, so I will sit at home with my kids,’’ she said. Alhaji Abdullahi Malala, a farmer, said it was disappointing for a town like Gombe that enjoys peace in the North-East sub-region, not to have such facilities. Malala added that recreational parks had a way of uniting the people of a particular entity and creating lasting memories that would stand the test of time. The people therefore appealed to both government and individuals considering providing recreation facilities in the state capital and other major towns.