By Donald Ugwu Sabongidda Ora (Edo) –   Volunteers in the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s job creation scheme on Monday described N-Power as a new definition of integrity and called for its sustenance. Mr Johnbull Oni, an N-Teach volunteer in Owan West local government area of Edo made the remark when thousands of youth converged on Holy Trinity Secondary School, Sabongidda Ora to witness the unveiling of “Build the Future’’ (BTF) campaign for Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Oni hailed the scheme for satisfying the manpower needs in the education, agriculture and health sectors in the country and called for strengthening of collaboration between the federal and state governments for its sustenance. “N-Power is a new definition of integrity in the country. This is a laudable scheme that should be sustained. “The federal government and the states should strike a deal to employ the volunteers as they were the ones doing most of the work in their places of posting,’’ he said. According to Oni, most schools in the local government survives with the N-Teach volunteers due to the dearth of classroom teachers in the area. A similar view was also expressed by Mr Abdulrahim Haruna, Mrs Caroline Mege and a host of others at the Auchi Polytechnic Hall where the scheme’s monitoring team interacted with thousands of volunteers in Edo North. “We thank President Buhari because it is not easy to uplift people,’’ Haruna, a father of three said, adding that he used his stipends from the scheme to keep his children in school. Mege also declared: “I now pay school fees ahead of time and send money to my brothers in tertiary institutions the moment I receive “alert’’. “I thank God for this programme and also Buhari and his team for making the programme a reality. “I want permanence because I don’t want to go back to my old condition,’’ she added. Other volunteers narrated how the scheme assisted them to set up thriving businesses as well as pursue post graduate programmes to be able to move to the next level. The Presidential aide on job creation, Mr Afolabi Imouklhuede, who addressed the gatherings reminded them that Buhari and Osinbajo represented “integrity, equity and justice’’ for every Nigerian as they implemented the Social Investment programmes without recourse to party affiliation or tribe. “N-Power is about development and not about partisan politics. “Buhari and Osinbajo are Pan-Nigerian and will not do anything that can separate the citizens. “I hope you will, with the aid of the stipends and devices on your hands, see opportunities that will benefit your lives,’’ he said. He recalled that series of the administration’s programmes were tailored toward empowering the citizenry at the grassroots level and appealed to the youth to ensure that they acted in such a manner that the programme would outlive them. “Do not allow detractors to deceive you and as you tell your success stories let no one despise your early beginning,’’ he advised. Accordingly, he said that the unveiling of BTF is to showcase the achievements of the Buhari administration in youth and social development and to energise the youth for participatory democracy in the country. Mr Irimore Sule, the Chairman of the Association of Principals of Public Schools (ANCOPPS) in Owan west noted that the school system was running into troubled waters due to lack of teachers until N-Teach volunteers came to the rescue. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the presidential team visited the Chairman of Owan West, Mr Frank Ilaboya, and the journalist-turned politician praised the Buhari administration for the focused programme and pledged every assistance. (NAN)