By Shuaib Sadiq  Kaduna,    –     The European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES) has started training 130 data administrators from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for effective information management ahead of 2019 polls. ECES’ Project Coordinator for Nigeria, Mr Rudolf Elbling, who disclosed this at the opening of a three-day workshop in Kaduna, said the trainees were drawn from the 36 states of the federation. Elbling, represented by Mr Samson Fadare, Consultant, Election Monitoring and Support Centre (EMSC), said the training was part of efforts to harmonize all the information about the election monitoring units into a single body for effective service delivery. “Today’s workshop is strategic and critical to successful operations of the EMSC in all the INEC states offices, as it is targeted at building the capacity of data administrators for effective performance in discharging their duties. “Your role as data administrators will determine the quality and timely availability of reports in line with the overall EMSC reporting frequencies. “It is extremely important for data administrators to meet up with the reporting deadlines to achieve the goals and objectives of the EMSC in the build up to the 2019 general elections,“ Elbling said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports s that the centre had held a two-day EMSC workshop for INEC’s Implementers in the North West Zone in Kaduna between Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. According to the official, EMSC will continue to provide the tool that INEC requires to effectively manage its field assets, resources, constituencies and chains of electoral activities within the electoral cycle. Earlier, the Special Adviser to the INEC Chairman, Prof. Muhammad Kuna, said the training would enable the data administrators to provide accurate information in preparations for the 2019 polls. Kuna said the workshop was the fourth in the 54 training checklist lined up for the various categories of staff ahead of the 2019 polls. He assured the public of INEC’s efforts to ensure credible, free and fair 2019 polls.