By Ahmed Ubandoma Abuja –   Mr Femi.Adesina,the Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, says President Muhammadu Buhari is ” a movement for better Nigeria.” Adesina said this on Monday during a love feast for Buhari, organised by members of the Buhari Support Organisation to commemorate the 76th birthday of the President in Abuja. He told the gathering that Buhari had enjoyed unflinching support, love and loyalty from Nigerians because they believed in his ability to deliver the Nigeria of their dreams. “ You know the Presihdent has become a movement. “i heard somebody speaking in Igbo language at a campaign, when I asked what she was saying, i was told that she said we did not need to campaign for the President again,’’ he said. Adesina expressed gratitude to almighty God for safeguarding the life of Buhari to continue consolidating the achievements recorded in the last three years of his administration. He, however, advised some disgruntled individuals who wished the President death not to engage in a fruitless mission because “ Man is not God’’. “ I think this should be celebrated to give glory to God because we know what happened for most part of 2017 when the President was away on medical vacation and a sprinkle of people were wishing he would die. “ But, God knows how to shame people with evil hearts, so he brought the President back home and when he came back, he did not only come back healthy but better than he had ever been. “So, I will say that those people with evil hearts on a day like this should have a rethink, they should know that man is not God and God is not man. “They can never wish any evil to happen and it will happen because God has absolute control over the affairs of men.’’ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), had earlier reported that, President Buhari, who marked his 76th birthday on Monday, jokingly `protested’ when a reporter mistakenly reduced his age by one year. Different groups such as the Good Governance Ambassadors of Nigeria (GOGAN), Buharist Hangout and the Buhari Support Organisation had converged in Abuja to join other well wishers to.celebrate with Buhari.(NAN).