By Edward Ojiah  Abuja –  Amb. Dato’ Ku Jaafar Ku Shaari, Secretary General, Developing-8 organization for Economic Cooperation, has expressed desire to collaborate with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) to aid economic development among member states. He gave the indication when he led a delegation to pay a courtesy visit to Mr Bayo Onanuga, the Managing Director of NAN, on Monday in Abuja. Amb. Shaari acknowledged the role of the News Agency of Nigeria in fostering development and cooperation in Nigeria, a role he said the agency could replicate among the member countries of the organisation. He urged the Managing Director to support the organization through showcasing the good work of the organization to the citizens of Nigeria. “Our request to visit NAN is for a fact that the News Agency of all member states is very important to us. “We expect that D-8 is publicised for awareness to the public so that citizens can be aware of our activities. Amb. Shaari said that the objectives of the D-8 since inception, focused on economic sustainable development and uplifting the standard of living of the citizens of member states. “In 1997, all the leaders of member countries agreed to establish the Istanbul declaration to work on economic cooperation. “The agreement focused on specific areas including trade, industry, agriculture, security, transportation, energy and tourism.” The Ambassador expessed the hope that his visit to Nigeria would rejuvenate the cooperation among member states to promote economic growth and development “The idea is to start looking at how we can cooperate together to promote and boost the economy through the public and private sector.” Responding, Onanuga commended the secretary-general for reviving and invigorating the organisation within a short period of his assumption of office. “You (D-8) can take the economies of the eight countries beyond where they are today” with the lofty ideas and programmes being executed and planned for the members. He gave the assurance that NAN was very interested in partnership with the organisation, adding “you are already in it (partnershp) with us”. D-8, an economic cooperation, is an organisation for development cooperation among Bangladesh, Egypt, Nigeria, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Pakistan and Turkey. It was formed through the Istanbul Declaration of Summit of Heads of State/Government on June 15, 1997. (NAN)