By Felix Ugboja ABUJA (Sundiata Post) The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has promised to reduce the menace of call masking in the Nigerian telecom industry by at least 80% in 2019. This was made known during the 86th edition of Telecom Consumer Parliament (TCP) organised by the commission on Thursday at the Shehu Musa Yar’adua Centre in Abuja. The event with the theme, ‘’Overcoming Challenges of Call Masking/Refiling: Task Ahead for the Telecom Industry,’’ was full of promises for Nigeria in terms of addressing call masking which costs the country a lot of money and poses a security threat. According to the statement by the commission’s Executive Vice Chairman, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, Call Masking is when an international call is terminated in Nigeria as a local number. The perpetrators have ulterior motive of profiting from price differentials between international and local calls termination rates. ‘’As a commission, we have discovered that call masking is being perpetrated with small movable devices called SIM BOXES, which are electronic boxes loaded with SIM numbers. A SIM box has capacity to receive and transmit calls undetected. However, the challenge is that these SIM boxes are never type-approved by the commission, a clear indication that they are being used illegally,’’ he said. Call masking, he said, is a global phenomenon, and up to about $60billion is being lost annually as a result. However, the commission has found a way. He said: ‘’In the last 8 months, the NCC took very active measures, investigations, with works with our task forces to reduce the incidence of SIM Boxing in Nigeria by 34%. ‘’We have been able to find a technological solution to solve what is a slight technological problem. That solution has been tried in Lagos and about 12 people have been arrested in the basement of their houses and those using the booth of their cars to install the boxes. We have tried it, and it is working, and we hope to launch it in January 2019. ‘’I can assure Nigeria that before the end of 2019, we would have had 80% reduction in call masking.’’ Also speaking, the Commission’s Executive Commissioner Stakeholder Management, Mr Sunday Dare, said that through efforts by the commission, the country has been able to grow its active voice subscribers from 165 million in 2017 to 169 million in November 2018. According to him, the internet subscription grew from 107m in October, 2018 to 108m in November 2018. He also said that total active broad band subscription on 3G and 4G platforms currently stand at 5.8 million. He said that broad band penetration grew from 21% in 2017 to 30.9% in 2018, which means improvement in quality of data, quality of service, reaching underserved and unserved areas. Given the 4 infrastructure licenses already awarded for the 6 regions of the country to provide structure that will boost broadband penetration; the percentage should rise to about 45% in 2019. He also said that the commission, according to the National Bureau of Statistics made contributions worth over N4 trillion to the country’s GDP this year.