By Chibuike Nwabuko .…..Alleges EFCC, Police Recruited For the Devious Act The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Prince Uche Secondus has alerted the nation that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) and the leadership of Nigeria Police have entered into a secret pact with the All Progressives Congress, (APC) to cripple PDP controlled states and ensure they lose focus on the in-coming elections. Prince Secondus said that the move which is aimed at causing severe and disabling damage to these states is part of the grand design to distract the PDP from its focused journey to reclaim power and rescue this country from the inept rule of the APC. Disclosing this to newsmen on Wednesday in a statement, the Senior Adviser to the National Chairman, Ike Abonyi, said the opposition party said it’s privy to a credible intelligence showing that the ruling party has mapped out a strategy to ensure that PDP controlled states are adequately inconvenienced and frustrated enough not to have concentration to tackle their re -election. Prince Secondus singled out Bayelsa State that had eight Police Commissioners in three years as well as Akwa Ibom and Ebonyi States where the Police leadership in the states have been changed at randomly at the dictates of APC government. Also, in Akwa Ibom state Assembly crisis engineered by the APC, the Police clearly became an interested party playing a bias role to ensure it danced the music of the APC. “In most PDP states despite the governors being the statutory chief security officers, Police Commissioners have set up parallel structures to undermine the security of the states just to satisfy their pay masters “They have resolved to inject crisis in PDP controlled states and ensure that our Governors who are refusing to play ball are permanently distracted for their re-elections. ” They have deployed huge cash in these states to either use labour or state legislators to inject crisis, frighten the governors and force them to do a deal with them. The National Chairman disclosed that the anti graft agencies particularly the EFCC and the Police have been co-opted into this nefarious project to make it look as if it’s anti corruption program. “Nigerians should ask the EFCC Chairman, Ibrahim Magu who is busy campaigning for President Muhammedu Buhari and wearing his campaign badge why only PDP governors are on their radar. “Nigerians should ask EFCC why they are looking away on what happened in Kano that everybody watched, if Governor Ibrahim Ganduje had been a PDP would EFCC have kept mum?
“Nigerians should find out why is it that only PDP Finance Commissioners are visitors to EFCC while their APC counterparts where corruption is obvious are glorified. “Only PDP governors are performing and carrying out people oriented projects across the country as can be witnessed by all but they are the only one being harassed by Magu and his team. “We are aware on good authority that Magu has vowed to make the re- election of President Buhari his personal project even if Nigerians appear to have turned their back on them. Prince Secondus accused the APC of not seeking to derive their mandate from the populace but more engaged in devious acts to achieve result. ” what APC is engaged in is a skillful use of underhand tactics to win election at all cost because they cannot face Nigerians for another mandate. “That is why they are not campaigning or seeking votes from Nigerians, that is why President Buhari has refused to sign into law an amended Electoral Act that would have guaranteed this nation a freer and fair election. “Nothing clearly underscores the fact that the APC is not interested in having a transparent election than the refusal of the President to sign the Electoral Act into law. Prince Secondus however warns the Police and the EFCC leadership that the PDP and the Nigeria people will use every available means guaranteed by law to resist any attempt to thwart their will.  Sent from my Ike’s ipad