Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Political activist, Deji Adeyanju, who regained his freedom on Monday has again been re-arrested by a police team which had laid siege around the correctional facility, Keffi shortly after his release over alleged petition by Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai. Recall that Deji Adeyanju was on 28th November arrested by the Nigerian Police and has since been in their custody. According to his long-time associate, Ariyo-Dare Atoye, “He was released on Monday afternoon after we met his bail conditions,”,  he told PREMIUM TIMES Monday night. “We are now aware that they are plotting to charge him on allegations of aiding terrorism on social media.” According to Premium Times, Mr Atoye claim that the Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, was the author of the petition, could not independently be corroborate  as of 8:30 p.m. Monday. Mr Adeyanju was leading a protest against partisan conduct of top security chiefs ahead of Nigeria’s general election next February when he was arrested. Sundiata Post recalls that the Service Chiefs were reported to have attended the presidential  flag off campaign of President Muhammadu Buhari at the Aso Villa before the Minister of Defense ordered them out of the gathering. Before the November 28 protest that dispersed with his arrest by a police team, Mr Adeyanju had led demonstrations outside major foreign diplomatic missions in Abuja, saying in his complaints that Nigeria’s future could be on the brink should security chiefs be allowed to continue in their current partisan posturing. The police denied Mr Adeyanju’s allegations that they were working to ensure the reelection of President Muhammadu Buhari, even if it involves upturning the will of the majority through rigging of ballots. They arraigned him late Monday afternoon before Karshi Chief Magistrate’s Court on the outskirts of the nation’s capital, alongside two others who were said to have taken part in the protest. Daniel Abobama and Boma Williams were released from Keffi Prison on Monday afternoon, hours before Mr Adeyanju regained his temporary freedom from the same facility. Following his re-arrest, Mr Adeyanju was moved to the Abuja police command headquarters, Mr Atoye said, amidst uncertainties over his fate. “We are expecting him to either be arraigned tomorrow, be released on administrative bail or be kept in perpetual custody under the pretext of continuous investigation,” Mr Atoye said. “This does not bode well for our democracy.” Abuja police commissioner Bala Ciroma could not immediately comment on Mr Adeyanju’s matter, but said a police spokesperson would be detailed to issue a statement on it later, Premium Times said. A spokesperson for the Nigerian Army did not return requests for comments about the petition from Mr Buratai. Recall that Mr Adeyanju’s detention has been received with utter condemnation from rights groups and individuals, and many Nigerians also see it as a descent into brazen abuse of power reminiscent of the dark days of military dictatorship. Foremost rights group, Amnesty International, said Mr Adeyanju has a right to protest, especially in a constitutional republic like Nigeria, warning that his continued incarceration could further deteriorate Nigeria’s appalling human rights records. (Premium Times).  