By Ariwodola Idowu Ado Ekiti –   The National Peace and Reconciliation Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday appealed to aggrieved aspirants and members of the party in Ekiti and Ondo states to embrace peace. Alhaji Kashim Shettima, the Chairman of the Peace and Reconciliation Committee in the South West Zone and governor of Borno, made the plea in Ado-Ekiti. Shetima, while interfacing with aggrieved aspirants in the two states over the last primaries, said the way Ambode handled the outcome of the primary in Lagos State had made him a favourite of many Nigerians. “From 1999 to date, I don’t think any Nigerian politician has demonstrated Anbode’s level of courage in the way he handled the governorship primaries in Lagos and he is also a member of this committee. “He is a governor who has worked exceptionally but as I said, politics sometimes comes with unpredictable outcomes. “ Our courage in reacting to situations like Governor Ambode is what separates men from boys. “I think anyone unhappy with the outcome of the APC primaries should draw inspiration from Governor Ambode,’’ he said. He urged the aspirants to cooperate with the committee to proffer a lasting solution to all the disputes. “Nigeria currently has about 120,000 polling units and for President Muhammadu Buhari to win, he needs votes from all these units by relying on party members to be able to get votes. “ And in most cases, these are the people the president may or may never know “We are here to listen to you, we didn’t come here with a mindset. But we are pleading that you join hands with us to resolve all these crises “Even our own leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was the first victim of the party’s compromises. “ When the Vice Presidential Candidate to President Buhari came up, he had to painfully compromise his interest in the overall interest of the party,” he said. Gov. Ahmed Nasir el-Rufai, on his part, expressed joy that the crisis in Ekiti was not as serious as in Ondo State. “If we win at the state and federal levels, we stand the chances of accommodating everybody but when we lose, then the party will be the greatest loser “In Kaduna State, I had issues with APC but I never had the intention of leaving the party. I stayed in the party and fought until justice prevailed. “ We stand to gain nothing if we continue to fight. We must listen to ourselves and find the solution to all these crises,” he said. Other members of the committee include Dr Dakuku Peterside, the Managing Director of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, former Deputy Governor of Ekiti, Prof. Modupe Adelabu and Hajia Seida Usman-Bugaje. (NAN)