By Ijendu Iheaka  Aba (Abia) –   The All Peoples Grand Alliance (APGA),Abia Central Senatorial candidate, Chief Chidi Ajaegbu has appealed to the Commissioner of Police in Abia, Mr Chris Ezike to warn persons destroying his election posters to desist from such action. This he daid was with a view to saving the state from breakdown of law and order. Ajaegbu made the call in his home in Aba while speaking with newsmen. He noted that in the last three weeks, two of his election billboards in Ariaria, Aba and Block bus stop at Ikwuano in Bende had been destroyed by unknown persons. “Barely last week, my bill board at Ariaria was destroyed. We have information pointing to the opposition parties. “We are law-abiding and we do not intend to join issues with the hoodlums destroying the billboards. “Ultimately, we want to find a solution, a legal and legitimate solution, by asking the law enforcement agemcies in the state to take action to protect these billboards. “What could happen is that, if they continue to destroy our billboards, the implication is that at some point, our supporters would want to retaliate and it could lead to the breakdown of law and order in the state. “We, therefore, appeal to the Commissioner to please intervene, urgently, to protect these billboards and stop the consequences of having them destroyed, ”he said. Ajaegbu said that coming from the organised private sector where things were organised and rule of law was prime, his party, APGA, would not retaliate by destroying other candidates’ billboards. He, however, appealed to all well-meaning Abians to advise everybody involved in the destruction of billboards to desist from doing that to avoid the breakdown of law and order. Ajaegbu noted that the destruction of his billboards and the attack on Ossy Prestige, the APGA member representing Aba North and South at the House of Representatives showed a disturbing trend. Ajaegbu urged also.PDP to evolve people-oriented policies to remain competitive in 2019 general.elections rather than intimidating opponents. “They could start by paying salaries and going to campaigns to beg people and all of that. “But if they think it is all about intimidation and violence, nobody has died twice and nobody has monopoly of violence.” He expressed the hope that INEC in Abia would do the right thing to check the negative development. He stressed that “APGA is the dominant party in Abia. “I can assure you that with all intent and purposes that the people want change. “So we are all human beings and I am very clear in my mind that, INEC is going to give Abia a free and fair election and that the will of the people will prevail, that will is APGA.”NAN)