By Oluwabukola Akanni  Ibadan   –     A new movie, “Foreign Love” in which Nollywood meets Hollywood, is set to make its debut screening at the Culver City Film Festival on Dec. 9 in Los Angeles. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the movie was written by a Nigerian-American filmmaker, Michael Oke. The film festival which commenced on Dec. 4 would come to an end on Dec. 9. Karina Martinez, the Public Relations Officer, InTents Creative, said on Wednesday in a statement that the movie was directed by Hollywood’s Eboni Adams and co-directed by Ben Chiadika. “Foreign Love’’ features award winning Nollywood veteran actors Jide Kosoko and Tina Mba, as well as Nollywood A-Listers KC Ejelonu and Wole Ojo. Also starring in the movie are Hollywood actors Greg Taylor and Cwennen Corral. The Nollywood-Hollywood romantic mash-up tells the story of a brilliant Nigerian student, an American student, and their struggle to bridge cultural differences, in order to make their relationship work amidst pressure from their families. Jason (Greg Taylor) has always been the smartest guy in his class. According to Oke, He is confident he will be the Valedictorian of his graduating class until he meets fellow classmate, Funmi (KC Ejelonu), an equally intelligent student from Nigeria. “Soon the duo find themselves moving from competitors in the classroom to lovers in the bedroom. “I became a filmmaker by accident. Inspired by a speech I had heard regarding African women, I decided to change the way the U.S views African women. “With little experience in film, finding the funds became the biggest challenge. Determined to rewrite the narrative of Africa in the media, I took the creative leap and self-funded the film. “With Foreign Love, I hope to show the world that African women are strong, intelligent, and are embodiments of dignity and determination. “Having grown up in Nigeria and now a resident of Long Beach, I wanted to create a film that depicts both my native country and my new community. “In making this film I drew upon the richness of my Nigerian homeland-culture and blended it with the new life I have now in America. I hope to showcase the beauty that’s Nigeria. “The story line starts in Lagos, Nigeria and later moves to the streets of Long Beach, California where the couple meets and falls in love.” Meanwhile, the Director, Adams, said that “Foreign Love’’ mixed the story telling of Nollywood and sprinkled the narrative style of Hollywood and never once shying away from the topic of race. “Foreign Love is a true Nollywood meets Hollywood film. “In today’s present climate, it’s refreshing to tell a story of two people from opposite sides of the planet working together to conquer trials and tribulations that then result in the ultimate reward-love,” she said.