By Rukayat Adeyemi  Lagos    –       The Lagos State University (LASU) has warned applicants, students, individuals and groups seeking to make payments to the institution not to pay into undesignated accounts The Spokesman for the university, Mr Ademola Adekoya, on Thursday said the warning resulted from reports received by the university that some of its partners, who intended to make payment to the university, had fallen victims of the antics of scammers. “The warning is necessitated following reports that some individuals, who in a bid to make payments to the university for one purpose or the other, fell victims of the antics of scammers. “The scammers used various personal accounts to extort monies in the name of the university, ‘’ Adekoya said in a statement. The university, however, warned that any payment made to any individual account other than the university’s official accounts would be at the owner’s disadvantage. In another development, the university said that an original certificate of one of its students found at a Suya spot in Epe, Lagos State, was invalidated five years ago. The explanation follows a trending report of the discovery of an original LASU degree certificate belonging to one Abisoye Azeez Oluwaseun, a second-class upper graduate of Chemical and Polymer Engineering on Nov. 19, 2018 at a Suya spot in Epe, Lagos. The institution said investigation of the matter proved that the certificate, though actually existed, was invalidated on Feb. 25, 2013, due to wrong spelling of the name. “The university having recovered the ‘certificate’ on Wednesday, Nov. 21, wishes to clarify that the ‘certificate ‘ actually existed but was invalidated on Feb. 25, 2013 because the graduate’s surname was wrongly written on the ‘certificate’ as ABISOYE instead of ABIOYE. “The university had issued another certificate carrying the correct surname and this was collected by the graduate on the Sept. 30, 2014. “By the university’s standard and practice, the invalidated certificate ought to have been shredded immediately the certificate was re-issued with the correct surname. “Obviously this was not done and by default the invalidated certificate got into the public space due to improper screening of office waste papers, prior to disposal. “Mrs Adeyemi Adesanya, a seller of soft drinks at a location near the Epe campus, who recovered the invalidated certificate near her shop, posted the image on a social media platform, supposedly for the attention of the ‘owner’. “Although, the social media post by Adesanya was a source of embarrassment to the university,’’ he said. According to him, the university management wishes to assure all stakeholders and the general public of its determination to sustainably preserve the sanctity and integrity of all validly-issued certificates by it. “Toward this end, the university management has taken immediate actions to forestall such unpleasant incident, ‘’Adekoya said.