…As Sacked Imo APC Chairman Kicks By Chibuike Nwabuko Owerri (Sundiata Post) — President Muhammadu Buhari and governors of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) are set to be part of the campaign flag-off ceremony of the party’s governorship candidate in Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma in Owerri today. The Director of Media and Publicity of Uzodimma Campaign Organization, Declan Emelumba, disclosed this to newsmen yesterday in Owerri. Emelumba also informed that the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, senators as well as House of Representatives members would be part of the flag- off ceremony. “President Muhamadu Buhari and state governors are among the top dignitaries that will grace the flag- off campaign of the APC governorship candidate for Imo State, Sen Hope Uzodimma, in Owerri today. The national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party and top party chieftains from across the country will also be on hand to grace the occassion. The flag off ceremony is seen by political observers as an opportunity for the APC candidate to showcase his widespread popularity in the state,” he said. Oshiomhole Sacks Imo APC Executives Also yesterday, the sledgehammer of the national headquarters of All Progressives Congress, (APC) finally fell on the Nwafor-led Imo State Executive Council of the party. The hammer, which many political watchers expected, eventually descended on the Imo executive. A credible source from the APC Coalition Forces in the state confirmed yesterday that “the Nwafor-led state executive has been eventually sacked by the party’s national headquarters and a caretaker committee appointed to run the affairs of the party in Imo State”. According to the source, “the APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has inaugurated a Caretaker Executive Committee for the party’s state chapter. The committee is chaired by Prince Marcellinus Nlemigbo, a die-hard loyalist of the state Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere. “Other members are Ugochukwu Nzekwe, Vice Chairman; Dr. Love Ineh, Secretary; Enyinna Onuegbu;  Canice Moore; Mrs. Josephine Nnoha; Paul Opara; Chief Linus Ineoha; and Nicholas Osuagwu.” We Are Ready for You Imo APC Tells Oshiomhole Meanwhile, the sacked chairman of APC in Imo State,  Mr. Dan Nwafor, yesterday challenged the national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole that the reported dissolution of the Imo APC excutives would be resisted by lawful means. According to Vanguard, Nwafor who spoke to newsmen in Owerri, called on the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Ibrahim Idris, to intervene in the matter, adding that Oshiomhole’s action could cause break down of law in the state. He also claimed that Oshiomhole was on a mission to destroy APC not only in Imo state but in the entire Southeast region. Citing a court order restraining Oshiomhole from taking such an action, Nwafor said: “This action of Adams Oshiomhole- led NWC is not only illegal, ultra vires their powers as enshrined in the constitution of our party but also runs against the judgement of the high court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja Division.  