By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Management of the National Assembly (MNASS) has urged the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria, (PASAN) to call off its proposed picketing and strike action but instead to continue to dialogue with the management of National Assembly. MNASS made the call while reacting to the threat by PASAN to picket the National Assembly on Tuesday and Wednesday, December 4 & 5, 2018. In a statement on Monday signed by the Clerk of the National Assembly, (CAN), Mohammed Sani-Omolori, he informed that the National Assembly management is already addressing some of the grievances raised by PASAN. In a letter titled “Re: Notice of picketing/strike rising from the resolutions of congress meetings of the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria, (PASAN) National Assembly Service Commission and National Assembly chapters”, Omolori reminded that he empaneled a committee made up of management and PASAN to study, review and advise on the way forward with respect to the payment of 28% increase in CONLESS. According to him, “The payment was captured in 2018 budget, but the level of implementation in terms of release of funds has made it impossible to pay this additional 28%. “This situation has been well discussed, and I am aware that PASAN officials have investigated and verified this fact from the Federal Ministry of Finance”, he said. On non-release of some promotion letters, upgrading, conversion and other establishment matters, he said of the 589 letters of promotion, conversion and upgrading sent by NASC, 562 have been released to the respective beneficiaries. The 27 pending ones have issues of “promotion into non-existent vacancies, conversion of staff to other cadres in breach of extant guidelines approved by NASC; wrong effective dates of promotion and/or conversion, suspicious career progression records and questions concerning consultancy cadre, he said. “Your determination to embark on industrial action by all means without exhausting the options available to you is uncalled for, as picketing and strike actions should be the last resort instead of the first in industrial relations”, he warned. The CNA therefore requested PASAN EXCO to immediately call off the proposed picketing and strike action and continue to engage the management of National Assembly on all issues raised in their letter of November 29, 2018.