Abuja (Sundisha  Post) – Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara has mourned the death of the first executive president if Nigeria, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, adding that Shagari led Nigeria with dignity and honour and respected the independence of the legislature and judiciary in the second republic.” Recall that Shagari died on Friday evening at the National hospital, Abuja after a brief illness. The news of his demise was disclosed by his grandson, Bello Shagari who is also the president of National Youth Council of Nigeria, NYCN. Also governor of Sokoto State,  Rt Hon Aminu Waziri Tambuwal announced the death of the foremost execitive President when he took to his Twitter handle @AWTambuwal. In his tribute to Shagari, Dogara, hailed Shagari for taking it in good faith, when “anti-democratic forces truncated his government,” saying his demise is a big loss to Nigeria and Africa at large. In a statement via Twitter on Saturday, the Speaker said Shagari’s death came at a time, when Nigeria needed his elderly wisdom and counsel, the most. President Shagari led Nigeria with dignity and honour and respected the independence of the legislature and judiciary in the second republic under the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN). We have lost a father, man of peace, true democrat, patriot and nationalist. When anti-democratic forces truncated his government, he took it in good faith and continued to play the role of an elder statesman and father. He led an exemplary life of service to God and country worthy of emulation, and was a president for all Nigerians. His demise is a big loss to Nigeria and all lovers of democracy on the African continent. His death came at a time when we are in dire need of his elderly wisdom and counsel as we navigate this challenging phase as a nation. We extend our condolences to his immediate family, especially his eldest son, Hon Aminu Shagari, who is our colleague in House, the people of Sokoto state,  the Sultanate Council and government of Sokoto over this irreparable loss. May his gentle soul rest in perfect peace. 