By Joy Eyi Masaka (Nasarawa State) –   Some residents of Masaka in Nasarawa State have said the harmattan period is posing some challenges forcing them to devise varied means of adapting to the prevailing weather. The residents, who spoke in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Masaka, Nasarawa State, described the temperature during the harmattan period as severe in the early hours and milder in the afternoon. They said that the severity of cold had compelled them to wear thick clothes such as head warmer, cardigan and muffler to keep them warm, adding their mode of dressing generally had changed to complement the weather. Some of the residents said that because of the dust, which usually came with the harmattan, their homes were also dusty and look unkempt. A resident, Mr Henry Adimoha said that during harmattan season he usually experienced cuts on his lips because of the severity of the weather. “These cuts occur every dry season starting from every early November to early January and when this happens, there is no amount of medication that I can apply on it, it cures its self when it gets to early January,’’ he said. According to him, it is not uncommon to meet persons using one kind of ointment or jelly on their lips and skin this season. Another resident, Malam Haruna Adamu, a commercial motorcyclist said he hardly went out in the morning on business because of the cold and low visibility. “We, the commercial motorcyclists hardly go to work in the morning because of too much cold in the morning,’’ he said. A dealer in second hand clothes, at Nyanya Market, Mrs Florence Ayebe, said that she had been having high patronage this period as customers were buying warming clothing. She said that the prices of items such as cardigans and other warm clothing had gone up because of the change in weather. “Though some customers complain about the increase in price, they have no option but to buy things to protect their bodies from the effect of cold and dust that come with the season,” she added. Another cloth dealer at Wuse Market, Mrs Ene Ejembi said that her biggest customers this season were civil servants who would purchase suits and jackets that provided them warmth through the day at work. “During the rainy season the price of jacket is N1,000 or N 2,000 but now it is sold from N1,500 to N2,000,” she added. A corps member residing in Nyanya, Mr Jacob Charles said that he was finding difficult to wake up early and go to his place of primary assignment because of the effect of the harmattan. He attributed his frequent lateness to work to lack of vehicles plying his routes in the early hours of the morning, saying “the season is making movement of commuters more difficult than before’’. “Getting buses to work is also difficult as well. You stand on the road for hours without vehicle coming, so these days going to work is not interesting at all,” he said. (NAN)