Isaiah Eka  Uyo –   The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it has secured eight convictions in Akwa Ibom since the establishment of its office in the state over a year ago. The Zonal Head of the commission in Akwa Ibom, Mr Abdulkarim Chukkol, disclosed this during the ceremony to mark the 2018 Anti-Corruption Day in Uyo on Monday. He said that EFCC had secured about 256 convictions across the country over the years, noting that eight were from Akwa Ibom. “We have been in the state for about a year and four months now. A lot of activities have gone on in the state and we secured eight convictions in Akwa Ibom. “We have many cases that are lining up for investigation before we go to court. I can assure you in the coming years we are going to secure more convictions,” Chukkol said. The zonal head said that corruption war should not be left for the commission and government alone, stressing that the war must be fought by all Nigerians. He said: “Combating corruption is the duty of all of us. The purpose of this day is to create awareness on the dangers of corruption. “All Nigerians must be ready, each and everyone has a role to play. Chukkol said EFCC would continue to work with NGOs and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) to create awareness and eliminate corruption from the country. Earlier, the State Coordinator, Social Action Anti-Corruption Network in Akwa Ibom, Mrs Ann Udonte, said that awareness creation and sensitisation were necessary to mobilise grassroot participation in combating corruption. Udonte said that corruption was the reason many abandoned contracts were littered all over the state and country. She disclosed that 70 per cent of government projects listed in 2018 projects had been abandoned. “The increasing level of abandoned projects across Nigeria has deprived the citizens the benefit of the trillions of naira budgeted yearly for development. “This process of stealing monies meant for execution of public projects has led to the numerous cases of abandoned projects in the country,” Udonte said. She said that government should put in place mechanism to institutionalise accountability process in all its operations.  (NAN)