By David Adeoye  Ibadan –   The National Orientation Agency (NOA) in Oyo state on Friday organised a prayer session for a violence-free conduct of the 2019 general elections. In her address at the occasion, Dr Dolapo Dosunmu, the state Director of the agency, urged Nigerians to partner with the government so that peace and tranquillity would continue to reign during and after the elections. Dosunmu posited that every Nigerian of voting age has a role to play in the success of the elections and urged everyone to shun acts capable of discrediting the elections. ”It is the responsibility of the electorate not to mortgage their future by accepting peanuts as patronage; they should vote wisely. ”The religious leaders should continue to pray for the protection of the sanctity of the nation. ”The traditional rulers and community leaders too should lead by example as a moral compass for their subjects while the electoral umpire –INEC-have to live up to their billings of conducting free, fair and credible elections. ”As good people of Nigeria, let us not promote hate speech and in our own way, halt the spread of unsubstantiated news that can trigger unnecessary suspicion and violence,” she said. The director stressed that it was by allowing peace to reign that national progress could be firmly rooted. In his goodwill message, the Resident Electoral Commissioner in Oyo State, Mr Mutiu Agboke, assured Nigerians that INEC would conduct credible elections. Agboke, represented by Mr Olajide Akanji, implored politicians to play the game according to the rules and regulations guiding the conduct of elections in Nigeria. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that prayers were offered for the wellbeing of President Muhammadu Buhari, his cabinet and members of his family and for the stability of the nation at large. The NOA management also used the occasion for its 2018 Christmas Carol. Among the dignitaries that attended the forum were Pastor Femi Emmanuel of the Living Spring Chapel, Taiwo Adelakun of Victory Church and Dr Benjamin Akanmu, the Oyo State President of the Christian Association of Nigeria. Dr Testimony Onifade, who represented the National President of CAN, Pastor Ayokunle Olasupo, was also present. (NAN)