By Martins Abochol
Yola     –     Gov. Mohammed Bindow of Adamawa on Tuesday said that the state government would complement Federal Government housing programme aimed at providing affordable houses for the state work force. Bindow gave the assurance at the Ground Breaking of 100 units National Affordable Housing Delivery Programme for Nigerian workers in Yola. NAN reports that the project is being financed by the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) in collaboration with the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress and the Nigeria Employers Consultation Association. The governor said that provision of housing was crucial to the welfare of workers, adding that they needed it to stimulate their productivity. He said that his administration had given priority to the welfare of workers, adding that the three years of his administration had improved the workers` condition of service. Bindow commended the Federal government for the programme, saying that the state government would support it to logical end. “I will personally monitor the project to ensure its speedy completion,“ he assured. Earlier, Mr Ahmed Dangiwa, the Managing Director, FMBN said that the programme was designed to be implemented in phases. Dangiwa was represented by Hajia Rahinatu Aliyu, Executive Director, Cooperate Services of the bank. The managing director said that the first phase to be run as a pilot would deliver 1,400 housing units cutting across the six geo-political zones of the country. He said that Adamawa was lucky to be picked from the North-East geo-political zone due to its commitment to the National Housing Fund (NHF) scheme among other reasons. The managing director said that the bank would provide mortgage loanm through selected primary mortgage bank to Nigerian workers contributing to NHF. Dangiwa said that the loan would enable such workers to purchase the houses and repay over a maximum 30 years, upon the completion of the houses. He also said that the management had approved the prices for the houses ranging between N3.1 million and N8.3 million. According to him, the units comprises of one bedroom detachable flat, two bedroom bungalow and a three bedroom semi detachable flat with all facilities as designed in the template. He said the project was contracted to “Al-Mukab Dynamics“, a private developer for the completion period of six months. Dangiwa commended the governor for his support and appealed to him to assist in fencing the estate to make it secured for the occupants, majority whom would be state civil servants.(