By Henry Oladele  Lagos –   The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) on Thursday said it was partnering with the Covenant University, Ota, among other universities, in the area of Research and Development aimed at better operational efficiency. AVM John Baba, the NAF Chief Standards and Evaluation, made this known during his visit to Prof. Aaron Atayero, the Vice-Chancellor of the university. Baba visited the university’s Centre for Research, Innovation and Discovery, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Induction Furnace, Surveying and Geo-informatics Department. He said that aim of the visit was to check on the school’s facilities and seek support of the institution to the service to effectively carry out its statutory role of defending the nation. Baba said that the NAF was willing to partner with the university and other institutions in the areas of aircraft maintenance, building technology, security, surveillance and other relevant fields. “We have areas we have prepared so that you can check which ever area you feel you are comfortable and experts in and you can also advise us. “This is why it is important to collaborate with your university and others to look at areas of assistance,” Baba said. Receiving the team, the vice-chancellor expressed his satisfaction about the readiness of the NAF to partner with the school. He assured NAF that the university would do its best to collaborate in all areas possible. Atayero commended the efforts of the current NAF leadership at improving the knowledge base of its personnel through sustained research and development. Earlier, Baba had visited the University of Lagos where he took a tour of their facilities aimed at enhancing the service’s research and development. Part of the places visited at the universities were Mechatronics and Metrology Laboratory, Welding and Fabrication Workshop and Areodynamic Laboratory. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the purpose of the tour is to restate the NAF’s commitment to the existing MoUs with the universities. NAN reports that the visit was also to evaluate current joint projects and explore new areas that could immediately add value to the NAF in the fight against insurgency. The NAF team is expected to visit the Federal University of Technology (FUTA), Akure and University of Ibadan (UI) at later date.  (NAN)