By Oluwatope Lawanson  Lagos    –      A 42-year-old live-in nanny, Idiat Owonikoko, has asked an Agege Customary Court, to dissolve her loveless marriage with her husband, Suleiman Owonikoko, over battery. The petitioner, a mother of three, who resides at Anuoluwapo Area of Iyana-Oworo in Lagos, approached the court for the dissolution of the 16-year-old marriage, also on grounds of threat to life and irresponsibility. “l have suffered so much loss due to constant beating by my husband,” she said. Idiat claimed that when the pains became unbearable, l had to move out of the house, to stay alive. “My husband is irresponsible and lazy, since he lost his job 10-years ago, l have been responsible for our rent and all other expenses. “Whenever l ask him for feeding allowance, it leads to serious argument between the two of us. She told the court that her husband frequently takes his frustration on herself and the children, “ Last year, during the Ramadan fast, my husband beat me up that l was hospitalised. “My children are not spared his wicked act, sometime in Nov. 2017, he threatened one of them with a kitchen knife “I had to report him at Ifako Police station to restrain him from beating and threatening my children.,” she said. The petitioner told the court that she had to move to her sister’s home to be able to remain alive. She described her husband as an aggressive and violent man, pleading with the court to dissolve the union. “I am no longer interested in the union; my husband does not care for me and beats me habitually,” Idiat said. She prayed the court to give her custody of their children and to award her other consequential orders as the court may deem fit. The respondent, however, denied ever raising his hands against his wife. “I still love my wife and do not want to divorce her,” he said. Suleiman, 47, who has been jobless since 2008, urged the court not to dissolve the marriage. The respondent who denied ever beating his wife, however, claimed that his daughter slapped him for admonishing her to be of good behaviour. He affirmed that his wife has been responsible for the children’s education since he lost his job, but he has been trying his best. “I don’t beat my wife like she claimed, rather, she is the one that no longer obey my orders because l am jobless. I told her that we should be living together as a family but she refused and moved into her her bosses house and only comes on weekends, which led to a serious disagreement between us ,” he said. The president of the court , Mrs Patricia Adeyanju, told the estranged couple to remain at peace and adjourned the case until Feb. 5, for Alternative Dispute Resolution.