Just imagine the following and you know why even after Buhari might have left office, either in 2019 or 2023, some guys will NEVER recover their thinking and reasoning faculty. * When there was terrorism under Jonathan, it was due to arms funds being stolen. But under Buhari, it was due to fifth columnists in the military. “Service chief are working!” * When there was fuel scarcity under a PDP government, it was because subsidy funds were being stolen. Under Buhari, saboteurs want to embarrass the government. * If dead men had been appointed under Jonathan, it was because the President was “clueless”. But when Buhari did it, he should not be blamed because he was not aware. * When elections were rigged under a PDP government, Obasanjo or Jonathan gave orders for it. But under Buhari, “it must have been done without the President’s knowledge.” * Whenever anyone was accused of stealing under a PDP government, he or she was guilty as charged. But if anyone is accused under APC, “wailers are angry because source of free funds have been blocked.” Or better still, they tell you: “Petition EFCC.” * When someone donated to Jonathan’s Campaign, it was stolen money and GEJ must have been aware of it. But when a questionable character donates to Buhari’s campaign, you hear: “you can’t blame the president. No way he could have known the source of the money.” * Fayose, Wike, Saraki, Atiku are all thieves. What of Tinubu and Ganduje? They have a standard answer: “Has any court convicted them?” * Any project abandoned under PDP government, it was because the money for the project has been embezzled. But when it happens under Buhari, “the contractor deliberately wants to embarrass the government.” * Fashola in 2015: “Any government should be able to fix power in THREE years.” Fashola in 2018: “If you don’t have light, it is not government’s fault.” Deformed brain: “Fashola has a point. The DISCOS want to frustrate this God-sent government.” Some brains are ‘irrecoverable’! Source: Facebook