By Segun Giwa  Owo    –      An NGO, Connected Development (CODE) has tasked Nigerians to always monitor government spending on projects in their areas as part of efforts check corruption in the country. The Nwachukwu Agu, Assistant Programme Officer, CODE, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Owo, Owo Local Government Area of Ondo state on Tuesday. Agu spoke on the sideline of a community meeting the NGO organised with community leaders in Owo. He said the NGO had commenced tracking of N12 billion the state government released for the renovation of schools in the state, with a view to tracking the progress of work. The Assistant Programs Officer said the money was released through State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB).. He noted that Owo town was the case study in Ondo State for the NGO to track government spending on the renovations in schools, after the state government announced the amount to be spent on the renovation of schools. Agu added that the idea was borne out of negligence for projects that were to be done for those at the grassroots level due to some perceived level of ignorance. The Assistant Programme Officer said the body was, however, happy with the responses given by the community leaders on projects executed so far. “It is a youth initiative; practically we are tired of the level of corruption in the country. Basically, what we do is to monitor government projects at the grassroots level. “This initiative was born out of having citizens’ approach directed against corruption and we intend to use it at community level, basically we track government spending in key areas; education, health and environment. “We move round communities across the six-geo-political zones of the country, making sure that government projects are implemented according to specifications. “We are here in Owo to track part of over N12 billion budgeted for construction and renovation. We are here in Owo and happy that this is a success,” he said. Agu said he was excited with the level of participation of the community leaders in Owo in the meeting. Sunday Arileye, a leader at Okeogun community in Owo, who said the state government had done well with the renovation of primary schools in the area, commended CODE for its interest in the community development.