By Aderogba George Abuja –   Mr Chukwuma Okenwa, Chief Executive of One Nigeria Reality Project, an NGO, has called for more attention to the nation’s tourism sector to fast-track development in the country. Okenwa, who is also the convener of Youths Decide 2019, said this at a news conference on Friday in Abuja to push for the promotion of tourism development in the country. He decried the neglect of tourism in Nigeria that has about seven tourist sites that could become a good source of income if properly managed. According to him, there is the need to improve on these sites to attract tourists. “If government can pay more attention to build resorts around those sites, ensure their safety and security, we can make more income,” he said. Okenwa also called on youths to be at the forefront of promoting the country’s cultural values and heritage that was fast fading. According to him, one of the essences of the reality project is to promote culture, tourism, leadership, national dialogue and peace advocacy. Mrs Merit Okogun, a promoter of cultural heritage Edo, called on states to rally in support of the preservation of cultural heritage. She said that contrary to the opinion that culture was fetish, it was an expression and preservation of cultural heritage. Miss Chigoziem Onugha, a culture promoter from Anambra, said she was in love with anything that had to do with her culture. She said losing one’s culture was like losing oneself, adding that culture was about expression and must be promoted. Mr Ojo Adepelu, a culture promoter from the Ekiti, said that the Yoruba culture remained a very rich culture, adding that by virtue of slave trade, Yoruba’s had gone beyond Africa. He called for proper package of culture to attract Nigerians and foreigners. Miss Kaltumi Abulazeez, from Nasarawa, said that the insurgency had taken a toll on the culture of the region that needed to be redressed. She called for the promotion of cultural value to avert total elimination in the nearest future. (NAN)