By Monday Ijeh  Abuja   –      The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola has called for downward review of charges on project valuations by members of the Nigerian Institute of Estate Surveyors and Valuers. Fashola made the call on Wednesday in Abuja during a courtesy visit by a delegation from the Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria led by its Chairman, Mr Nweke Umezuruike. He said that the amount the Federal Government was being asked to pay as compensation and its valuation had become worrisome. Fashola said that the valuation had compounded the problem adding that when valuation was done, the federal government was charged 10 per cent as professional fee and 25 per cent reimbursable expenses. “This has become a mountain to climb, it has become an issue in power, works and housing and we need to change the trend. “It is no longer sustainable, I have read the regulations, and the 25 per cent reimbursable expense is the ceiling and not the minimum. “Every time we go to the ceiling, we are not making progress, so let the notice be served because we cannot put all the money on one side. “We need the money to build infrastructure, the estate surveyors and valuers also need the road, so a spirit of sacrifice and compromise must come to play here,” he said. According to him, we want you, we need you but there must be a sense where you will help us to look at those fees again because the projects we are building are in billions of naira. He said that the current 35 per cent being charged for valuation was unsustainable adding that no group of professionals in the world charges as much as 35 per cent. Umezuruike said that the visit was to brief the minister on the achievements of the board since its inauguration in January. He said that the board had personalised its improved adhesive stamps to be used on a wide range of documents issued by each registered estate surveyor and valuer. According to him, the stamps will be used in both public and private sector and will not only be applied to valuation reports only. Umezuruike said that the board had concluded plans to publish its green book to ensure valuation standards in the country. “With the publication, Nigeria has become the first African country to have her own internationally recognised valuation standards.