By Mohammed Ahmed Kaigama   Toro    –      The Presidential Committee on Northeast Initiative (PCNI) says it is partnering Bauchi State government and Pro-Health International to extend its free medical outreach to 7,000 vulnerable people in Toro Local Government Area of the state. Dr Omotalani Awokoya of Pro-Health International and the Project Coordinator of the Week, disclosed this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Toro on Tuesday. ‎He said the outreach was designed for residents who were unable to access medical facilities provided by the state government and other Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) in Toro communities. “The exercise is targeting 7,000 people in the communities, its surroundings and neighbouring state at this General Hospital, Toro. “It includes surgeries, medical consultations, eye care services, dental consultations, general and specialised nutritional education, the provision of food supplements, among others,” Awokoya said. He noted that the outreach would treat ailments like malaria, typhoid and infections while the complicated cases such as eye operations, pregnancy-related operations and serious ailments requiring remedial surgery would be attended to. Awokoya said the exercise would last from Monday, Dec. 10 to Friday, Dec. 14 and would cover people from Toro Communities and surroundings. “All these will happen in the partnership with PCNI, West African College of Surgeons and University of Abuja Teaching Hospital with support from Bauchi state government. A beneficiary of the programme, Malam Musa Kabiru, said he was examined by doctors and drugs were prescribed for him. “This morning, I was examined by doctors who prescribed medicine for me and I was given the drugs. I have nothing to say rather than to appreciate the government for the gesture. “I can’t afford to buy those drugs given to me free, it is like a dream, we thank God for that,” he said. Another beneficiary, Hajiya Suwaiba Toro, appreciated the state government for providing health support for people in the community. “The Federal and state governments have done much to us by providing this health support for the venerable people in this community. “As for me, I brought my aged mother who had a problem with her legs, she was attended to and we were given free drugs for treatment, God bless the sponsors of this health support,” she said.