By Shedrack Frank Elebele, (Bayelsa)  –   The candidate of Labour Party for Bayelsa East Senatorial District, Iniruo Wills, has described education as a critical tool for speedy development of the state. Wills made the remark as a Guest Speaker during the Bayelsa East Students’ Congress, held on Monday at Elebele in Ogbia Local Government Area of the state. According to him, development is not about how much was spent in an economy but how prudently such funds were invested in areas with huge multiplier effects capable of fast-tracking development. He called on students from the zone not to only think of themselves as students but to also be forward-looking in taking part in the process that would produce the right leadership and that could guarantee quality and affordable education for the upcoming generation. “We place very high premium on the welfare of students and we would take steps when elected to pass laws that would make quality education affordable to the poor and less privileged, ‘’ Wills said. He noted that the prospect of gainful employment upon completion of studies was slim, unless the right leaders were voted into power. Wills also charged the students to embrace peace and refrain from the temptation of being used as political thugs to foment electoral violence in the forthcoming elections. Wills, who is also the President of Ijaw Professionals Association (Homeland Chapter) said it was time to take advantage of the political process to elect credible leaders committed to redressing the imbalance and perceived injustice in the state. He urged the students to turn out en masse to vote out bad and corrupt leadership so that the best men and women would emerge irrespective of their party affiliations. Speaking on behalf of the students, Comrade Noel Damini assured Wills that the students’ community in the district had already taken a position not to vote for parties but candidates with deep understanding of the issues confronting students and Bayelsans at large. (NAN)