By Ibukun Emiola Ibadan —  The Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, and other eminent Nigerians on Thursday in Ibadan paid tributes to an emeritus professor of medecine, Oluwole Akande, who clocked 80 years. They spoke at a symposium organised by a Committee of Mentees to celebrate the 80th birthday of Akande. Adewole, a former student of Akande, urged Nigerians to emulate the good legacies of the celebrator, noting that he remained an embodiment of humility and impeccable character. “Leadership is not just a title or position but about one life influencing another. “Prof. Akande has achieved so many feats in the Nigerian medical field, one of which was when he was appointed Chairman of the Presidential Project Implementation Committee (PPIC),’’ he said. The minister said Akande headed the committee which supervised the Federal Government’s rehabilitation of university teaching hospitals between 2007 and 2015. Akande, he added, “ served with candour and commitment as well as ensured that PPIC got value for the money spent.’’ He said that the history of the University College Hospital and the College of Medicine would not be complete without mentioning the input of Akande. Prof. Oladosu Ojengbede, a consultant Obstetrics and Gynaecology at UCH and Prof. Friday Okonofua of the Ondo State University of Medical Sciences, also paid tributes to Akande, saying he remained a worthy example of service to humanity. Others who paid tributes were the Vice Chancellor of University of Ibadan, Prof. Idowu Olayinka, represented by Prof. Kayode Adebowale, the Chief Medical Director of UCH, Prof. Temitope Alonge, as well as the Provost of the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Prof. Oluwabunmi Olapade-Olaopa. In his remarks, Akande pledged to continue in his efforts to support the medical profession in the country in order to take it to enviable heights. He called on all stakeholders to pay more attention to the health sector so as ensure adequate health coverage for all Nigerians. The forum tagged, “Exemplary Mentorship and Leadership- A Life of Service and Distinction,’’ was attended by medical professionals from across the country. Akande, a professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, was the first Chief Medical Director of UCH. (NAN)