Abuja(SundiataPost) –Chief Ademola Odunade, the President of a Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan, on Wednesday dissolved a three year-old marriage between Tawakalitu Adeoye and Hakeem over threat to life and ritual making. Odunade held that the court does not joke with any issue that had to do with life, hence the need for the dissolution. “It is also obvious that there is no more love between Tawakalitu and Hakeem as a result of their differences. “In the interest of peaceful living, the union between the duo has ceased to be. “Custody of the three-year-old child produced by the union is awarded to Tawakalitu and Hakeem shall pay a monthly allowance of N5,000 for the child’s upkeep in addition to been responsible for her education and other welfare”. Narrating her ordeal, Tawakalitu, a fashion designer who resides at Academy area of Ibadan, said that her husband had stylishly embarked on a marathon sexual intercourse with her with the intention of using her for ritual. “My lord, if I had listened to my parents’ advice that I should not enter into any marital vows with Hakeem, maybe life would have been pleasant with me today. “It all began when Hakeem started requesting for sexual intercourse from me every morning and night without any particular reason, an act which he was initially not used to. “Firstly, he takes his bath and then rush me to bed, sleeping with me. “Each time he finished with me, I felt weak, subdued, restless and completely shattered physically and psychologically. “Until I made the discovery, Hakeem had planted a charm (Tira) under my pillow for two good weeks without my knowledge and I had laid my head on it. “Then, I reported him at Eleyele Police Headquarter in Ibadan, but he pleaded with the police to prevail on me not to implicate him. “He also told my relatives that I lied against him and that I must retract the statement of which I accused him of trying to use me for ritual. “Worst still, Hakeem derives pleasure in turning me into a punching bag at any slightest opportunity. “These and many more are the reasons why I had to pack away from his home since Oct. 27. “Please save my life from Hakeem because he is spiritually diabolic”. In his counter argument, however, the respondent refuted all the allegations leveled against him while consenting to the divorce suit. Hakeem who earned his living as an Alfa submitted that his wife merely cooked up what she said so as to get sympathy of the court “I will like this court to take note of the fact that Tawakalitu is so adulterous and I have caught her several times in the act. “In fact, she and her secret lovers usually chat in my presence every night. “My mother had also advised me not to marry her from the onset because of her bad attitude. “There is nothing I have not done to satisfy Tawakalitu.” (NAN)