LAGOS (Sundiata Post) – All Progressives Congress national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has described the late Dr. Fredrick Fasehun who died in the early hours of Saturday as a renowned pro-democracy and good governance activist, committed democrat, tested political player and Yoruba nationalist who left behind fine legacies. He charged the Fasehun family and other associates of the late leader not to allow his fine legacies to die. Asiwaju Tinubu was reacting to the death of the Afenifere chieftain in a statement on Saturday by his Media Office signed by Tunde Rahman. He said: “Dr. Fredrick Fasehun was a renowned pro-democracy and good governance activist, committed democrat, tested political player and Yoruba nationalist. I say all of that because I knew him well. We related very closely. “He was known for his Yoruba nationalistic fervor. Like an Afenifere chieftain that he was, he fought stridently for the Yoruba cause. He canvassed true federalism and political restructuring. He fought as well for the cause of the Nigerian nation. “The good thing about Baba is there was never a time that he sat on the fence. Although trained as a medical doctor, he was very active politically. We were together in the forefront of the agitation for the de-annulment of June 12. He founded the Oodua Peoples Congress to actualize June 12 but espoused non-violence. “Nonetheless, he remained a torn in the flesh of the military. It was therefore no surprise that Dr. Fasehun was imprisoned for 19 months from December 1996 to June 1998 by the General Sani Abacha regime. “And when democracy fully returned to the country he participated actively. From being an Alliance for Democracy sympathizer in 1999 to 2003, he moved to the front stage. Perhaps, one of his last political acts was to attempt at reviving the Unity Party of Nigeria formed by the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, by giving the same name to the party he later formed “There was also something remarkable about Baba: his love for Lagos. Though born in Ondo in Ondo State, he spent the most part of his life in Lagos. It was here that he situated his medical hospital, the Besthope Hospital and Acupuncture Centre, and his hotel business-the Century Hotel. “He was an extremely humble and modest man. I will miss him dearly. The Southwest, particularly Lagos and Ondo states, will miss him. Nigeria will miss him also. “I commiserate with the government and people of Ondo State. My sympathy and condolences particularly go to the Fasehun family at this moment. I hope and pray that God Almighty imbue them with the courage and strength to carry on. I enjoin them to continue with the fine legacies left behind by Baba. “May Almighty grant Baba eternal rest.”