Franca Ofili
Abuja –  The National Association of Nigerian Traders says the absence of effective monitoring of the agricultural policies of government is a major reason the policies have not created the much-needed impact on the people. Mr Ken Ukaoha, National President of the association, said this at a media capacity building workshop on agricultural policy instruments in Abuja on Thursday. Ukaoha gave some of the policy instruments as the Agriculture Promotion Policy, Comprehensive African Agriculture Programme, ECOWAS Agriculture Policy and the National Agriculture Investment Plan. He said while the policies were developed with the aim of stimulating and facilitating increased agricultural performance, monitoring of the impact of the policies on the people had not been effective. “This training is conceived against the backdrop the agriculture sector remains one of the strongest sectors for job creation, economic diversification and poverty reduction. “Regrettably, the sector has not been receiving adequate attention. “We are concerned that policies by the political class are not effectively monitored. How can they deliver on their promises or even have their results evaluated against public investments that are committed therein,” Ukaoha said. He called on stakeholders to rise up to the challenge of asking questions on the validity of these policies, their effectiveness, capacity to deliver on proclaimed principles and objectives of job creation. Ukaoha advised the media to do more of investigative reporting and also conduct evidence-based research and analysis as news articles or documentaries. Mr Ernest Aubee, Principal Programme Officer, Head of Division-Agriculture, said there was the need for the country to properly manage the issues concerning agriculture with sustainable programmes because agriculture was the backbone of the economy. According to him, it is the responsibility of the media to educate the ordinary person and called for more reportage of developmental issues. “The media need to write more on the impact of climate change on agriculture and the involvement of youths, to guide policy makers,” Aubee said. Mr Manson Nwafor, an Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Specialist on Comprehensive African Agriculture Programme (CAAD), said there was need for a new approach to agriculture in Nigeria. Nwafor said based on the target for the sector in Africa as set by the African Union, it was necessary for the Federal Government to set aside about 10 per cent of its annual budget for agriculture. According to him, there is need to double agricultural productivity and use agriculture as a tool to reduce poverty by 50 per cent. “Agriculture increases economic opportunity and reduces poverty levels and also reduces national and regional inequality,” he said. (NAN)