By Abbas Bamalli  Kano   –     The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola has assured motorists plying Kano – Zaria road that the rehabilitation of the road would be completed in the next two to three months. The Minister gave the assurance when he inspected the ongoing rehabilitation of the road and the Tamburawa bridge in Kano on Tuesday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Minister was represented by the Director, Federal High ways, in charge of Northwest, Mr Busari Sikirullah. He said the emergency rehabilitation of the Kano-Zaria Road which was awarded by the Federal Government in December 2017, and commenced in January had so far reached 60 kilometers. He explained that the rehabilitation of the road which was awarded at the cost of over N1.4 billion, when completed, would reducing the number of accidents being recorded on the road. “The Kano to Zaria Road is a major road linking various states in the northern part of the country, especially Kano which is the major commercial city not only in Nigeria, but in Africa. “If this road rehabilitation is completed, it will boost the country’s economy through the attraction of more investors because there will be no risk of accident as a result of potholes,’’ he said. He added that the repairs of the road would also assist in reducing the high cost of vehicle maintenance being experienced by motorists who always use the road and enhance the safety of lives. “Before now, the condition of the 276 kilometer road has deteriorated to an extent of having constant accident thereby leading to loss of lives and property,’’ he said. According to him, the emergency repairs of the road which started from Abuja to Kaduna, to Kano will also assist in reducing the traveling time and the security challenges faced by motorists. He added that, “apart from this emergency repairs aimed at ensuring the Safety of motorists, Federal Government has awarded the complete reconstruction of the road which we are hoping it will commence before the end of this year”. The minister commended the contractor handling the project for executing the work according to the contractual agreements and also the quality of work being done so far. On Tamburawa bridge, he said the 30-year-old bridge was at a verge of collapse before the intervention of the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. According to him, the contract which was awarded at the cost of N1.86 billion and now at 40 per cent completion is expected to be completed at the end of May this year. Also talking to newsmen, the Federal Controller of Works in Kano, Mr Ummaru Shehu-Dange said the contract was awarded to the contractor who constructed the bridge in 1986. Shehu-Dange said that the Federal Government embarked on the emergency repairs of the bridge immediately it was notified on its condition. “The condition of the bridge is man-made, because of the activities of sand excavators in the area.’’ But we have now sent them three kilometers away from the bridge and we would continue to monitor them,” he said.