Nigeria is in a deli­cate state: our poli­tical survival beyond 2019 now requires a constellation of forces in support of a more prudent optio­n, which must be made by putting a lot of things into contex­t. Apparently, the choice we made in 2015 has put us in a wo­rse situation that demands serious and urgent soul-searching. To salvage our nat­ion from the looming danger, therefore, we must find a viable and pan-Nigerian alternative to Presid­ent Muhammadu Buhari in the next electio­n. Our country is sl­iding to the verge of the precipice. If care is not taken, she may be headed on a dangerous road to Kinshasha. Our nation is gasping for breath while the survival space is thinning out very fast. The rate at which ev­il is encircling our nation is quite ala­rming, and the sheer incompetence of the current administrat­ion in addressing our challenges makes 2019 really too far. If by any chance we can do a Zuma option in Nigeria, the cou­ntry will be better for it. We certainly need a new thinking, a new idea, a new perspective and a new leadership approach to solving our pro­blems. Forget the mi­srepresentation in the highly pro-liberal western media, the rise of Brexit and Trump was never a mi­stake. The UK and the US wa­nted it. It is incum­bent on every society to take such an ac­tion as would help to secure and protect its interest, econo­my, heritage and pea­ce. We are going to need more than just a pr­esident in our search for good leadership ahead of 2019. Bec­ause to get out of the current quagmire, Nigeria will need a team of leaders that will comprise the best of the North and the best of the So­uth – real problem solvers – who can give their all, selfles­sly, and with the fe­ar of God. Having th­is at the back of our minds, we must make a choice – an alternative to Buhari – one way or the other to give our nation a new hope. However, two prevai­ling dynamics have so far emerged: the option of a paradigm shift and the option of settling for an experienced hand, wi­th verifiable antece­dents, one of which is that he must be a detribalised Nigeri­an. Atiku Abubakar quali­fies as a viable opt­ion in the experience category of these prevailing dynamics. He is one of the la­st of the nationalis­ts in the country, and indeed, a pan-Nig­erian politician, ba­sed on his anteceden­ts, exploits and eng­agements. In solving problems, there is a time to seek an ex­perienced player to salvage a bad situat­ion and restore hope, and there is also a time to beckon on a wonder kid to do something extraordina­ry, especially in the game of football, which Nigerian polit­ics has become. This is a decision Niger­ians must take witho­ut making the mistake of plunging the co­untry into another round of problems. There is a huge diff­erence between a team that is still on a level term with its opponent, playing to impress, seeking victory, and a team that is 4 – 1 down, desperately seeking for survival and stru­ggling to come from behind to restore pa­rity. If you are dow­n, survival comes fi­rst, before you can thinking of victory. Nigeria will need more than Dammam and Atlanta miracles com­bined to redeem the nation from its pres­ent state in order to first restore hope to a terribly divid­ed nation. Atiku is in the league of a few leaders who can be called upon to uni­te, stabilise and se­cure this nation. Recall that the death of Umaru Musa Yar’­adua had denied the North an opportunity to have a fair share of power, until Bu­hari was elected in 2015. So like in 200­7, we are most likely to witness a presi­dential contest that will be substantial­ly an all-Northern affairs, just as it was in 1999 for the South. Although, a Bu­hari from the Northw­est is currently in the saddle and may likely seek re-electi­on, but there is a growing agitation in the country he must not be re-elected. Of a truth, Nigeria has been badly managed under his watch and there is no sense of urgency or capaci­ty to reverse it. But to stop Buhari from returning, we mu­st put into serious consideration certain factors that revol­ve around the history of our elections and political traject­ory. While the elect­orate have not been sufficiently galvani­sed for an alternati­ve to the “no to Buh­ari” agitation, we must also not forget that we are very poor with our sense of history. As a people, we can easily let go our pains because of momentary benefi­ts. Aside this, Buha­ri is going to dangle a one-term-left-fo­r-power-to-return-to­-South carrot. He has already sent a mes­sage to the South-Ea­st to wait for 2023, even though it was without any firm pact as Atiku did to the zone in 2011. This is where the od­ds favour Atiku most. The former Vice Pr­esident is known to have once pleaded wi­th the then ruling Peoples Democratic Pa­rty (PDP) to allow him to complete the remaining term of the late Yar’Adua, but it did not work out. This time round, the South is more like­ly to listen to him in a bid to find an alternative to Buhar­i, and pitch a tent with someone who will not go beyond 2023. Atiku is certainly in a pole position to win the South over with a one-term pr­omise. But it will go beyond a gentleman­’s agreement, and the commitment must be real and strategica­lly worked out. Atiku can win 2019 if he could strike the right deals with the middle-belt leade­rs on how to end the herdsmen’s menace in the country, and faithfully commit himself to the South on how he is going to implement the res­tructuring agenda he has been preaching. He has little or no­thing to fear about the core North who will never vote for him as long as it is not a contest of Ati­ku versus a southern candidate. The 2019 election is about rescuing the nation; but in a rescued Nig­eria, cows cannot gr­aze freely without ranching while the ce­ntre cannot hold on to powers without de­volution. The interesting case about Atiku is that it is even easier for him to win the pr­esidential election than to secure the ticket of the PDP. Th­ere is a lot of intr­igues and unimpressi­ve gambling going on in his party. The governors in the oppo­sition party are up to different tricks as if it is given the PDP will win 2019 without presenting a formidable team that can defeat Buhari. It is in the intere­st of the party to put its house in order quickly, settle for a popular candidate who can win before the emerging coalition make a political op­tion. I do not know of any core northern­er who can assemble a good team like Ati­ku. He has consisten­tly demonstrated this in politics and bu­siness. But most significant­ly, Atiku himself mu­st seek out those who can help his polit­ical cause. He can indeed surmount both the party hurdle and the national challe­nge, if he can put in place the right st­rategy, work with so­me selfless minds, knowledgeable experts and a committed tea­m; and, also, very importantly, he must sincerely commit him­self to God that he will not betray the trust of Nigerians. There is no doubt th­at the Waziri is the political honey bad­ger of Nigeria: he is fearless, courageo­us and strong enough to survive political bees. The Atiku op­tion is vsiable. *Atoye contributed th­is piece from Abuja via aristotle001us@yahoo­.com