By Jimanze Ego-Alowes ABUJA (Sundiata Post) It is pretty obvious Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu has suffered his worst misfire in his entire political career to date. And what is pretty serious is that it is not just another misfire. It is one that is about to lead to his own political demise, perhaps via involuntary political suicide. And that will in the circumstances come with dire consequences for his Yoruba people. And finally for the entire south.  A rehash will help a little. Tinubu charmed his own heart that he was the master of the game, the political game. And he played a wildcard. He gave his belly-warm support and those of his Yoruba people to candidate Buhari, Muhammadu, General retired.  However it is on record, Tinubu was severally warned, advised, cajoled, never to get into that electoral marriage. It was to be a funeral foretold he was forearmed. But Tinubu was convinced he was a genius. And apparently he had a credit line of having done magical things with Lagos state politically, to show for it. For example he had beaten President General, retired, Olusegun Obasanjo to it – securing Lagos while other Yoruba states fell. At that moment of glory Tinubu looked like the wiliest Caesar in the Imperium. Perhaps he was.  But in being Caesar in his purpled Triumph, Tinubu forgot one crucial lesson of warfare. Terrain, terrain and yet again, terrain. The point is clear, man is still an animal. Despite all the cities we have built, despite having flown to the moon and back, man is a Hominina. And since Aristotle this has been pithily put. In politics, man, a Tinubu remains as Aristotle said of him – a political animal.  And animals are best only at their terrains or habitats and are inefficient otherwise. The croc is given as a famous example, at least by the Igbo. It is aptly named Agu-Iyi, that is master hunter of the seas. It implies that the croc is not a very deadly guy if you can corner him out of his watery habitat for a fight.  Anyway for those interested in looking back, one of the finest illustration of this was the clash of the Germans against the Russians at the winter. Russians are literally a winter peoples. And despite the efficiency and lethality of German war machine, Russians pinned them down just with snow and a few tanks. And remarkably, Russians also did this to the French under the imperial thug, Napoleon. And the French under Napoleon it is well to recall, were the greatest fighting force in Europe and possibly in the known world then. Yet terrain kicked Napoleon, whose name is today a metaphor for big ticket bravery and military genius, out and down. Terrain is divine, that is what I was taught at Biafra’s Military Academy. Terrain is an iron lore.  And back home we all seem to forget that it was terrain and habitat that humiliated the ambitious upstart, Usman dan Fodio and army. In their wild dream of being lords and masters of the of the middle belt the vegetation of the middle belt purged them out of their vitality. His horsemen, their horses, couldn’t just endure the bite pangs and serums of tsetse flies. And to make things worse, their horses would not know how to make the tickets and forests of the middle belt pliable highways for their hooves or master’s ambitions. And Fodio and his army, ambitious for blood and plunder, were crippled by terrain, just terrain.  What are we saying is this. Immediately Tinubu crossed his comfort zone, his home terrain and habitat, for other zones, he has suffered imperial overstretch and reach. His capacity to project power and levy sanctions, force or cajole alliances, persecute dissenters or mutineers, are vanished outside his terrains. They are gone beyond his reach. Literally Tinubu playing the political General at the national levels, does so without any armory or even an army. He is literally on his own weathering storms, or surviving by his wits. In a word he is become a hustler, a political hustler. And the signs and wonders of these are all over the place. He has been so devastated that his own beloved wife couldn’t hold back her tears. And she has cried out. Quoting her she said they ”trashed him”. He is now only fit for the dustman to clear, the wife implied.  But the latest sign of Tinubu discomfiture is his latest open letter. That was a terrible self-betrayal by a war tested political general. I have been in this game for a hundred years and more. And I know the signs when I spot them. In power game and politics, nothing, repeat nothing, is written or autographed until it is about to be executed. You don’t request power by literary applications. If things happened that way, Soyinka who writes better than the rest of us would have been more powerful than Napoleon. But the great old one is trapped at his Abeokuta redoubts battling mere herdsmen.  So the rule of the game is that what you cannot get by demanding it, you assume you cannot be granted by inking it. But to bring matters into the open is to confess that you are desperately shopping for alliances, moral alliances. And even if you got that, you at best will be a Pope, not a Caesar. And we recall Stalin, a modern Caesar. ”How many divisions has the Pope?”  Those who command the divisions at work and play in the Buhari war machine are Hausa-Fulani. Not one, repeat, not one, is Yoruba. And one does not need to consult a babalawo to know that Tinubu has lost the war, the war of divisions, of loyal troops. At any showdown he will be crushed. This is the iron lore of power. So Tinubu’s whole strategy is to avoid a showdown. What a non-motorable bind to drive oneself into?  But the question is why is Tinubu making these ”unforced errors” and mistakes? My guess is it is the Alcibiades syndrome. I have defined it once in my work HOW AND WHY THE YORUBA FOUGHT AND LOST THE BIAFRA NIGERIA CIVIL WAR. But lately I read the cerebral Jon West zero in on the matter. So we lift things off him. ”Alcibiades complex; an inability to own up to a moral, intellectual and spiritual cock-up. Jon West.”  It is at this point that the matter gets interesting. Tinubu is heavy with the Alcibiades indisposition. He is not likely as to want to save himself as to insist he was never wrong. And this should mercifully be understood. He is under the danger he thinks that if he opens up to his error, he may lose his gravitas and actually be trashed. So his game is to hold on, even as the ships go down. But the ships that are to go down is the Yoruba nation and the south. This is where the Yoruba genius is urgently called for. They should close ranks and broker a deal with Tinubu. The deal will be in the following guise.  Tinubu’s position as the greatest Yoruba since Chief Obafemi Awolowo, politically, should be conceded him. He should next be advised in his own and in the larger interest of the Yoruba to resign from active politics. He will now be given a godfather’s role. This will be reminiscent of what happens in Japanese politics. Immediately a factional leader falls out of luck or favour in Japan, he is replaced, but not dismissed. He is maintained in great dignity in some royal attic and visited or consulted every now and then.  With that kind of accommodation, Tinubu will be allowed to submit any 6 names out of which the remaining conclave will choose one to lead in the interim Yoruba charge for history. Or 3 names will be given Tinubu out of which he is to choose one who will lead the new pan Yoruba alliance via a transition. And of course a tidy list of key Tinubu boys are to be given sinecures in the emergent dispensation. But Yoruba may have to come under new faces to save itself and the rest of us. In summary Tinubu will be dismissed from future greatness but not from history. It is for the fear of their place in history that men, especially the Alcibiades of this world, yen to destroy our collective futures. This is an iron lore. Yoruba ronu.  With this home truce Yoruba can now use up their block votes to ally properly with others and save themselves and save the south and save their nation. One last word. I am not Yoruba. I am Oru not even Igbo, though not many Igbo know the difference. But the fact is that my interest in this is simple. The Yoruba in spite of themselves hold the key to the way the nation swings now. They are almost without intending it a brace power. But they cannot be that by being split into two or more parts- pro-Tinubu and non-Tinubu and feasibly, anti-Tinubu factions. And this is exactly what the heirs of the dan Fodio dream are plotting, to split the Yoruba axis.  If however, the Yoruba get their acts together then a future of immense brightness is about the nation. Nigeria ronu.  Source: Facebook