Abuja (Sundiata Post) Senate President, Bukola Saraki has commended the commitment of Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe to his intervention program which has empowered and showcased the ingenuity of his constiteunts. Saraki gave the commendation in his address at the opening of the 5th edition of the made in Aba trade fair where not less than 200 exhibitors and artisans are participating .  President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki on Tuesday reiterated that the National Assembly would not renege in supporting local manufacturers in Nigeria to thrive.  Speaking at the opening of the 5th made in Aba fair which kicked off in Abuja on Tuesday, Saraki commended the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Power, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe for supporting local entrepreneurs to showcase their God-given talents.  Saraki who was represented by Senator Philip Aduda stressed that Made in Aba was indeed a catalyst for growth.  “The National Assembly will support any effort to encourage the patronage of locally made products”  “This initiative will not just create empowerment for teeming Nigerian youths, but will encourage economic growth in the country while also providing platforms for actualization of self sufficiency in Nigeria”.  “The Made in Aba fair in Abuja is in fact the way to go if we must promote our local content and encourage small scale entrepreneurs to contribute in growing Nigeria’s economy. It will expose the local producer to current trends and what they must do to have the edge in a competitive local and international market”. Saraki said.  “It is my firm believe that producers over the years since the program started in 2013 have met with selected policy makers and individuals with influence in the government, as the results have shown”.  “Let me reiterate here that the National Assembly will continue to do everything within our power to provide enabling environment for the domestic manufacturer and service providers to thrive; we shall do this by partnering with the federal government to push for improved infrastructure financial investment and improved technology to aide our manufacturers”.  Speaking earlier, the brain behind ‘Made in Aba’, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe guaranteed that there was a lot to see and buy at the fair, as goods were been transported from Abia state to Abuja in a thirty ton lorry.  His words “the role of Aba in the rebranding of manufactured Nigerian goods cannot be wished away. Sundiata Post recalls that Sen. Eyinnaya Abaribe at a joint briefing with the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) on Wednesday said the aim of the fair from its inception is to encourage artisans and entrepreneurs in capacity development and link them up with both local and foreign buyers.  According to him, “In collaboration with SMEDAN, we are trying to make local content patronage a priority in Nigeria and made in Aba products are gradually penetrating the market to both local and oversee buyers”  The senator lamented the rate of low patronage of made in Nigeria products and appeal to government agencies and corporate bodies whose organizations require products produced by Nigerian entrepreneurs to patronize them.  “We have over 1.5 million security personnel in Nigeria, but when their kits like boots, belt, berets etc are about to be procured, they are imported from abroad while able hands that can produce these products are sitting jobless” he said.   