By Prudence Arobani  New York   –    U.S. President Donald Trump said he would have rushed in unarmed to confront the Florida school shooter who killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Trump stated this in his remarks to the ‘2018 White House Business Session with Governors’ winter meeting of the National Governors Association, a bipartisan organisation founded in 1908. Trump said: “You know, I really believe – you don’t know until you test it – but I really believe I’d run in there, even if I didn’t had a weapon. “And I think most of the people in this room would have done that, too, because I know most of you. But the way they performed was really a disgrace”. He described the incident as ‘horrible’, saying our nation is heartbroken. We continue to mourn the loss of so many precious, innocent young lives. “But we will turn our grief into action. We have to have action. We don’t have any action. It happens, a week goes by, ‘let’s keep talking’. “Another week goes by, we keep talking. Two months go by – all of the sudden, everybody is off to the next subject. “Then, when it happens again, everybody is angry and “let’s start talking again.” We got to stop,” he said. He insisted that there was the need to take steps to harden schools so that they were less vulnerable to attack. The measure, he said, included allowing well-trained and certified school personnel to carry concealed firearms. First Lady Melania Trump, in her remarks at the Governors’ Spouses’ Luncheon at White House, urged them to take a moment to reflect on the “horrific shooting”. She commended students across the country for voicing out against gun laws following the unfortunate gun violence at a Florida high school. “Our continued thoughts and prayers go out to all who were affected by such a senseless act. As a parent, I cannot imagine the kind of grief and tragedy like that brings. “And I hope, and I know, we all find ourselves wondering what we can do to help. “In my year as First Lady, I have also learned that it’s oftentimes after a tragedy that you see the strength and resilience of the human spirit. “I have been heartened to see children across this country using their voices to speak out and try to create change. They are our future, and they deserve a voice. “I know all of you are seeing this in your own states and territories, too. “And I believe that if we all come together, we can start to effect positive change for our children and help prepare them for their futures,” she said.