By Abujah Racheal  Abuja   –    The Federal Government says it is committed to utilising the centre for peace at the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs to design sustainable peace building initiatives in the region. The Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Prof. Claudius Daramola disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja. “The Federal Government is highly committed to empowering youths in the Niger Delta region through various skills acquisition development programmes, because the youths are the catalysts that will bring about the development of the region and the country at large. “It may interest you to note that the ministry decided to partner with Joseph Ayo Babalola University (JABU) in building the capacity of these youth. “Based on the fact that it is the pioneer entrepreneurial training institution in this country’’, he said. He disclosed that the foremost entrepreneurial university in Nigeria, JABU recently held a graduation ceremony for 50 non-militant Niger Delta indigenes who went through three months training programme in entrepreneurship building-related skills. The Minister said the youths built a modern multipurpose convenience as a research project to confirm their skill training course. According to him, we are in an era ‘of service, skills acquisition, vocational training, in addition to formal education as it will never be completed if one learns in the classroom but has no practical knowledge. He said that skills acquisition programme had a multiplier effects not only on the youths but the society in general, that was why the programme in artisanship was conceptually designed in collaboration with other institutions. “After each training the youths are issued with certificate to demonstrate the fact that they have been trained and transformed. “It is expected of the youths to defend any certificate received after undergoing any training programme. “In addition to the certificate, the Federal Government will also be giving them starters up pack as a means of empowerment to enable them take off,” he added. According to the minister, the ministry will be following up on each and every one of them with a view to monitoring the impact of their empowerment. “Their progress and improved wellbeing is our concern and the ministry hope they will maximise this opportunity to better their lives,” he said. Daramola said that there was need for the government to take proactive measures to halt further breakdown of law and order and reduce tension and agitation in the region . He called for promotion of peaceful co-existence for the betterment of the youths in the Niger Delta region and the nation at large. “Peace is an essential ingredient in any society for meaningful development to take place,” he said. NAN recalls that since the inception of the ministry, it has trained over 6,000 non-militant youths of the region in various skills. The youths were trained in oil and gas, agriculture, seafaring, maritime engineering and information & communications technology (ICT), including iPad and telephone assemblage.