By Monday Ubani Onyekachi ABUJA (Sundiata Post) If it is true that Transparency International has passed a verdict that Nigeria is still fairing badly with corruption, I have no reason to doubt them NOW SINCE I HAVE NEVER DOUBTED THEM PREVIOUSLY ON THEIR VERDICTS ON NIGERIA. Anytime they passed a verdict on any nation, it can never be faulted by anyone with sincerity. The truth of the matter is that Nigeria is yet to be free from corruption. It is more dangerous for a regime that boasts of fighting corruption to be found liable of committing corruption in large scale. This verdict calls to question the sincerity  and diligence by the  present regime in fighting the hydra headed monster called corruption in Nigeria. From my close observation of the fight against corruption by this administration,  it appears targeted against those who are in opposition. THIS IS A FACT. The present government have treated with kid gloves her members  who are accused of corruption. The second issue that makes this fight to look like a child’s play is the inability of the present government to involve the people in the fight, it is not people-driven. ONE MAN ALONE DOES NOT FIGHT CORRUPTION IN A COUNTRY! The first falter in the fight against corruption was when the government soft pedaled on her decision to publish the names of corrupt Nigerians that returned money to the government coffers when they came in . Immediately they failed on this, it became obvious they were not sincere with the fight and the insincerity is very evident in some of the wrong decisions they have taken concerning  some of their cabinet members that are accused of corruption  which they have failed to diligently prosecute. The worst sin in this fight is disobeying court orders and using impunity to run a government; in fact these things are the worst sort of corruption. Why would a head of an agency that fights corruption not be subjected to the constitution and laws that set up the agency? The world watches and they draw their conclusions from facts, raw data and situations they observe and see in our system and environment.  HAS CORRUPTION STOPPED IN POLICE, CUSTOMS, IMMIGRATION, ROAD SAFETY, MINISTRIES, JUDICIARY, LEGISLATURE AND AMONGST CABINET MEMBERS? It is pure madness to do the same thing, same way, and expect a different result. As it was in the beginning, so it appears even now, it is like the more you look, the less you see! I believe TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL biko!   M.O.Ubani Esq. Legal Practitioner.  *Source: Facebook