By Habibu Harisu  Sokoto   –     Sokoto state government has constructed 222 toilets and drilled 201 boreholes in selected schools, clinics and villages as part of effort to check open defecation and provide safe drinking water. The projects were executed in collaboration with the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF). Alhaji Hussaini Umar, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water Resources disclosed this on Tuesday at UNICEF/Sokoto government partnership 2 Mid-year review meeting in Sokoto. Umar said the boreholes comprised hand-pumps, motorised and solar powered adding that no fewer than 276 others were reactivated under the programme to improve access to safe drinking water in the selected local government areas. “The ministry’s activities in the partnership with UNIICEF also include, training of workers and community groups as well as installation of computers and other working tools. “I commend Gov. Aminu Tambuwal for timely release of N400 million counterpart fund that facilitated the programme,’’ he said. Speaking also, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Mr Mustapha Ali, said N150 million has been budgeted for improved nutrition package on state intervention programme on Acute Malnutrition Centers. Ali said immunization activities recorded more than 40 per cent success and commended key players and actors on their commitment to resolving rejections and ensure wide acceptance of vaccines. In his address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Budget and Planning, Alhaji Aminu Dikko, described the meeting as critical toward enhancing performance of ministries and departments with UNICEF on implementation. Dikko said the meeting was aimed at assessing progress of 2018 work plans, identifying challenges with constrains and make recommendations to ensure overall performance. UNICEF Head of Field, Sokoto Office, Mr Muhammadin Pall, said the meeting was a common activity to fine-tune upcoming activities with reflecting previous achievements. Pall noted that the areas of collaboration which were on Health, Education, Water and Sanitation, Nutrition and Communication for Development, was aimed at uplifting the living standards of the people. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event witnessed presentations on sectorial developments from the participants and resource persons.