By Ngozi Njoku  Lagos   –       A fake visa agent, Oyadokun Oladele, on Thursday appeared before an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for allegedly obtaining N900,000 from his Facebook friend under false pretences. Oyadokun, 34, of Fola Tyre area of Oyo State, is facing a two-count charge of fraud and obtaining under false pretences. The Prosecutor, Sgt. Lucky Ihiehie, told court that the accused committed the offences sometime between November, 2017 and March, 2018 at Ikosi in Ketu, near Lagos. Ihiehie said that the complainant, one Adenike Eniola, reported the case at the Alapere Police Station, Ketu on April 2. “Sometime last year the complainant and the accused met online and became friends after he introduced himself as an engineer working with a company in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and also as a visa agent. “During one of their conversations, Oyadokun told the complainant that he had some issues with his visa business and needed some money to push it. “A deposit of N600, 000 was requested by the accused, which the complainant obliged him and transferred the money from her account to the complainant’s account. “After some months, Adenike introduced a man, Arogundade Ishola to the accused to secure him a working visa to Dubai of which a sum of N300, 000 was negotiated for the process. “The money was transferred to the accused by Adenike on Dec. 22, 2017 and the visa was to be ready in six weeks. “After six weeks the accused said there was a slight delay in the visa process but that it was ready and that Arogundade’s flight had been booked for March 10, 2018. The prosecutor said that since March 6, the accused blocked his contacts and Facebook’s account so that Adenike wouldn’t reach him. He also said that it was discovered that the accused had been operating from Oyo State and not Dubai as believed by Adenike. Ihiehie said that Oladele was arrested in Oyo State through some of his friends that he also duped. The offences contravened Sections 280 (1), (a), and 314 (1), (a) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The accused, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Magistrate, Mrs E. Ikubehinje, admitted the accused to bail in the sum of N200, 000 with two sureties, who must be taxpayers with an evidence of payment of rent and other utility bills. The case was adjourned until Aug. 22.