By Bosede Olufunmi Kano –   The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Kano Sector Command, has organised a workshop to sensitise the Association of Driving School Operators of Nigeria (ACDSON) to promote road safety through quality drivers education. The Corps Marshal (FRSC), Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, said on Monday in Kano that the workshop was aimed at sensitising operators and relevant stakeholders to modern techniques of managing driving schools. Oyeyemi who was represented by the Deputy Corps Marshal in charge of Training, Mr Kabir Lawal, said the workshop was also aimed at addressing certain areas of driving school operations. According to him, the workshop intends to create relevant discussion and other variables that could contribute to the success of the driving school standardisation programme. “A lot still needs to be done through quality training, retraining and equipping of instructors with sufficient knowledge and practical skills so as to reduce high rate of road accident. “This workshop will further strengthen driving schools in the country to discharge their responsibility more efficiently to the people as stated in the National Road Traffic Regulations (NRTR) 2012,” he said. The corps marshal said that the law empowered the corps to set guidelines, regulate the establishment, register, inspect and accredit driving schools to ensure that the operators conformed to standards specified in the guidelines. “Some driving schools have been suspended from the portal for sometime due to illegal graduating of trainees in less than 26 mandatory hours. “However, the suspension of some of the schools for 10 months last year had led to the graduation of their trainees after one session,” he said. He said investigation to discover the illegal graduating of trainees would soon be completed; adding that appropriate actions would be taken. “FRSC has declared war against driving school certificate racketeering, the organisation will not spare anyone caught in the act,’’ he said. He advised members of the profession to find new ways of improving on the quality of driver education and road safety in the country. Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje urged (ACDSON) to endeavour to meet up with every standard required of the association. He said the State Government would continue to cooperate with the FRSC for improvement of lives and property of road users in the state. One of the members of ACDSON, Mr Sardauna Mohammed, commended the FRSC for organising the workshop. He pledged to give all necessary support aimed at ensuring the graduation of qualitative drivers.  (NAN)