By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja {Sundiata Post} – Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi has given reasons why President Muhammadu Buhari will be re-elected in 2019.  Amaechi informed that Buhari’s chances of being reelected in 2019 are still bright despite the mass defections of some people from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).  Sundiata Post recalls that on Tuesday, 14 senators and 37 members of the House of Representatives left the ruling APC with most of the defectors coming from President Buhari’s region.  The minister who was speaking with journalists after inspecting sections of the Itakpe-Warri rail line on Friday, said the chances of Buhari in 2019 are bright.  According to him, “No matter what you do, the governor of Sokoto will leave naturally he has ambition to be president. If you take a chicken to him he will still go, right? The same with Kwara, these are people you expect that they will leave. Ok they left with some members of house reps and senate, where did they come from? They are from areas the president is comfortable.”  “Do you honestly believe that the president will lose election in this country? Well nobody is God, but that is one of his comfort zones. The next person that left, left from Bauchi, if you bring president on a sick bed in Bauchi, he will win. He has never lost election in Bauchi.”  He said one quality that Nigerians believe he has is that he honest and never hid his feelings.  “One thing about me in the politcal history of Nigeria, nobody has been in doubt on where I stand, one quality I have and Nigerians believe is that I’m honest. I never hid my feelings,” Amaechi said.  The minister said the country would not survive another looting.  “Nigerians will certainly reject a second looting, Nigeria cannot survive another looting, call me all the rich men in Nigeria, everybody depends on government,” he said.  “Sixty percent of Nigerian rich men depend on government. Only three years that they remove the breast milk everybody is complainning.”