By Awayi Kuje  Lafia   –    A member of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Alhaji Mohammed Alkali, has advised students in the country to eschew indiscipline, examination malpractice and other social vices that could undermine their future.
Alkali (APC-Lafia North) gave the advice on Monday in Lafia after he received an award as “Political Icon of year 2018”.
The award was conferred on him by the Keffi chapter of the Nigeria Association of Agricultural Students, Nasarawa State University, Keffi.
He enjoined the students to take their studies seriously in order to excel in life as well as to contribute their quota to national development.
The lawmaker noted that indiscipline, examination malpractice and others social vices had affected education of students in Nigeria negatively.
“I appreciate you for the award. I am delighted and overwhelmed with this award as it will spur me to do more in order to improve the lives of the people of my constituency.
“Students are the vanguard of the society, so I advise you to take your studies with all level of seriousness and you should always engage in activities and do things that will move the society forward.
“I also want to advise the students against indiscipline, examination malpractice, cultism and other social vices in their interest and for the progress and development of the education sector and the country at large,” he said.
Alkali assured his constituents of his continued commitment to initiate more good policies that would better their standard of living.
The legislator also enjoined Nigerians to live in peace and tolerate one another irrespective of their ethnic, religious and political affiliation for the benefit of all.
Earlier, Mr Ari Yakubu, the President of the association, said that they decided to confer the award on the lawmaker after considering his development strides in the area of renovation of schools and water supply through borehole construction, among other constituency projects.
He called on the lawmaker to continue with his developmental strides in order to impact positively on the lives of his constituents.