By Dianabasi Effiong  Port Harcourt    –     The Nigeria Football Federation says it will offer retired Super Eagles’ goalkeeper  Carl Ikeme coaching education as a goalkeeper trainer and then absorb him into the technical crew of the team. The NFF General Secretary, Mohammed Sanusi disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. He said  the Federation was in contact with Ikeme, who announced his retirement from the game on Friday, with a view to training him as a goalkeeper coach. `”Carl Ikeme was an embodiment of absolute dedication, commitment and patriotic fervour in the games that he played for the Super Eagles. “”The circumstances of his retirement from the game are somewhat depressing, even as we thank God for his life. “”The Nigeria Football Federation will find the resources to send him on a coaching course, and afterwards absorb him into the technical crew of the Super Eagles. ““That is the least we can do for such a dedicated patriot.” Sanusi revealed that the NFF was aware of Ikeme’s plan to retire from football. “”A few weeks ago, he had spoken on phone with the NFF President and 1st Vice President of CAF, Mr. Amaju Pinnick, to intimate him on his (Ikeme’s) desire to retire. “”Even though he was sad about, the NFF President commended his fighting spirit and respected his decision, and also said he would rather allow the player or his club to break the news,’’ he stated The Wolverhampton Wanderers FC of England goalie was  diagnosed with acute leukaemia in July 2017 and entered into complete remission only last month. He announced his decision to retire from the beautiful game of football on Friday. Ikeme  played 191 games for Wolverhampton Wanderers FC, and was pivotal in the club’s promotion from League One to the English Championship. He is currently being heavily celebrated for uniting a club more renowned for its divisive tendencies. Ikeme was in goal for the Super Eagles in 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifying matches against Swaziland home and away. He also played in the away game to Zambia, the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Tanzania home and away and against Egypt at home. He also played for Nigeria in friendly matches against Democratic Republic of Congo, Cameroon and Niger Republic.