By Lucy Osuizigbo Lagos –   Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the Badagry Division of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Saturday urged aspirants to imbibe the spirit of sportsmanship during party primaries. The Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule, gave the advice at a stakeholders’ meeting organised by the the APC Badagry Division in Lagos. She said that having such attitude, irrespective of who wins, was needed to take the party to greater heights. According to her, there is the need to de-emphasise the do-or-die syndrome which breeds acrimony and intra party crisis. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the division is made up of four Local Government Areas namely: Ajeromi-Ifelodun, Amuwo -Odofin, Ojo and Badagry, as well as six Local Council Development Areas – Oriade, Ifelodun, Oto-Awori, Badagry West, Olorunda and Iba. ”The increased number of aspirants from our division calls for deep concern, and this meeting is to discuss among ourselves, avoid crisis and avoid hate speeches. ”One person only can win a contest, and every other person who did not win should hail the flag bearer and work with him or her for the greater benefit of the party, the people and good governance, ” she said. Mr Rabiu Oluwa, party chairman of the Division, urged aspirants to work for unity of the party and guard against intra-party crisis as experienced during 2015 general election. ”The internal crisis we experienced during 2015 general election caused us a huge loss. “We need to talk to ourselves and work harmoniously towards 2019. ”I’m appealing to party leaders and members to desist from endorsing candidates, and aspirants should imbibe competitive spirit by supporting whoever emerges as the party’s flag bearer at the primaries,” Oluwa said. In her remarks, Mrs Sarah Sosan, a former deputy governor, urged aspirants to collaborate with local government chairmen to mobilise residents for registration and collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) before the Aug. 17 closing date. ”PVC gives the citizen the privilege and right to vote during election. “We need to embark on serious mobilisation to educate the residents about their civic duties and responsibilities — registration and collection of PVC before Aug. 17,” she said. NAN reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said on July 6 that it would suspend the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) on Aug.17 until after the 2019 general elections. The 2019 general elections are scheduled to begin in seven months time, having been fixed for Feb. 16, 2019 and March 2, 2019.  (NAN)