By Ezra Musa Kaduna –   The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) Kaduna State chapter on Tuesday demonstrated against casualisation of workers by the Kaduna office of the MTN paralysing activities of the telecommunication outfit for hours. Comrade Ango Adamu, the State NLC Chairman, who led the protesting union members described, casualisation as a slave labour which should not be tolerated. “We are here to request that the telecommunication outfit comply with the Nigeria labour law. “We will fight against all forms of exploitation,” he said. The labour members sang solidarity songs carrying placards with various inscriptions that read, “We shall overcome slavery”, “Freedom comes by struggle”, “Workers rights are human rights”, and “No to precarious work”. Others are “Yes to dignity of labour”, “No to corruption”, “Yes to good governance”, and “Workers should be given their pride of place”. Adamu said their action was not to engage the management of the telecom outfit in violence that could lead to breakdown of law and order but to demand for the rights of Nigerian workers. He said that Nigerian workers would not be slaves in their own country, adding that there “is no room for casual workers in the labour extant rules of engagement”. The labour leader claimed that what was being done in Nigeria could not be done in South Africa. Reacting, Fatima Paris, the Area Manager of MTN, Kaduna, commended the union for comporting themselves in their protest without being violent. Paris explained that MTN only hire workers based on need and when such need was no longer necessary, the job would be terminated. She said that the office do not hire contract staff directly. On freedom of association by staff of MTN, she said “MTN does not stop her staff from associating with any union, but that it is voluntary and not compulsory.’’ The MTN area manager said that management had noted their grievances and would do the needful accordingly. NAN reports that heavily armed security men from the state owned security outfit where on ground to prevent any break down of law and order. Those who participated in the protest include the President of National Union of Textile Garments, Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN) Comrade John Adaji and the State Chairman of Nigerian Union Teachers (NUT), Comrade Titus Amba. (NAN)