By Ariwodola Idowu Ado Ekiti –  Ekiti State Governor-elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Tuesday constituted a 32-member Transition Committee headed by Sen. Olubunmi Adetumbi, with Mr Ayodeji Ajayi as Secretary. Fayemi announced this in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media Mr Yinka Oyebode in Ado Ekiti. The transition committee, according to the statement, is charged with the responsibility of interfacing with the present administration on the smooth handover of power on Oct. 16. Oyebode said that the governor-elect would inaugurate the committee on Wednesday. He said the committee’s terms of reference included: Developing a clear framework for liaison and establishing clear channels of formal communications to ensure a smooth transition; reviewing and making preliminary assessment of the fiscal position of government on the status of assets and liabilities of government. It will also establish the status of implementation of the 2018 Appropriation, revenue & cash flow position of government, public debt profile of government and their deployment as well as salary arrears due to all public sector workers and pensioners. Oyebode said the committee would determine the status of public procurement of government, especially government’s on-going and outstanding contractual obligations and receive handover documents from Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government. He said this was with a view to understanding the most important operational, regulatory and/or urgent issues confronting the incoming administration in order to guide the fine-tuning and prioritisation of programmes and policies in the incoming administration’s agenda. He further said the committee would interface with various stakeholders such as Labour Unions, Traditional Rulers, Academia, Religious Bodies, Transport Workers;, Market Associations, Artisans, Professionals, Farmers and Community Development Associations(CDAs) among others on their expectations. The special adviser said the committee was expected to submit its reports on or before Sept. 7. (NAN)