By Rabiu Sani  Maiduguri   –      Some aggrieved hotel owners in Maiduguri have demanded for compensation for their property demolished by the Borno Government. The spokesperson of the hoteliers, Mr Abraham Kaanti, said at a press conference on Tuesday in Maiduguri that the action of the government had contravened constitutional provisions and was an infringement of their fundamental human rights. Kaanti disclosed that 57 hotels and inns were destroyed by the government at Galadima, Baga road and other areas of Maiduguri. He alleged that the government was selective in the demolishing exercise and conducted it without prior notice to the hotel operators, and that the action had grounded their businesses and exposed them to hardships. “Valuable items such as television sets, refrigerators and mattresses were looted because we were not given notice to evacuate our belongings before the demolishing. “We have land deeds; titles and we are duly registered with appropriate authorities; we pay tax to the government and contribute to the social and economic development of the state. “Some of us have been in the hotel business for over 40 years in Maiduguri and we took loans to run our businesses. “Already, three of the affected hoteliers have died due to trauma for losing their life-saving overnight. “We, therefore, demand compensation from the government over the demolishing of our property,” Kaanti said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the State Government had on June 2 demolished several hotels in Maiduguri metropolis over alleged illicit businesses. Alhaji Kaka Shehu, the Commissioner for Justice, had earlier declared that the hotels were operating illegal businesses in the state. Shehu also accused the hoteliers of promoting social vices such as prostitution, drug peddling and harbouring criminals. He explained that the state government had in January issued a notice to the hoteliers to close down, noting that the exercise was designed to sanitise the society, check prostitution, drug abuse and other criminal activities.