By Stellamaris Ashinze Lagos –  The Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NIRA) has honoured some stakeholders for their excellent contributions in promoting Nigeria’s domain identity locally and internationally. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that among recipients in the .ng 12 award categories were Galaxy Backbone for Digital innovation in Federal Government and Guardian Newspapers for Best Print Media Website. Others were Borno State for Digital Innovation in State Government and University of Uyo for Best Tertiary Institution Website/ portal, among others. Speaking at the awards ceremony in Lagos on Friday night, NIRA President, Rev. Sunday Folayan, said the recipients used technology in building a sustainable economy and uplifting the image of Nigeria. According to him, the awardees are uplifting Nigeria’s .ng identity locally and internationally by stimulating consumption of local content on the World Wide Web. “When we conceived the .ng award, it was purely to recognise and celebrate excellence and it will remain so. “NIRA does not attach any monetary value to the .ng awards since its inception and no sponsorship or donation is required to participate in the .ng award. “Nominations and voting is at the discretion of the general public,” the NIRA president said. He commended various nominees who have proudly projected their businesses using the .ng brand in the course of the year. “Your zeal and patriotism is one motivating factor for us in NIRA, making us push the bar higher every year,” he said. Folayan said NIRA was happy to be counted amongst organisations providing opportunities for job creation, wealth distribution and economic growth through its various affiliates and stakeholders. NAN reports that NIRA is a critical national resource managing Nigeria’s unique identity on the World Wide Web (www) registry for .ng Internet domain names. The registry maintains the database of names registered in the .ng country code top level name space in the public interest of Nigeria and the global Internet community.  (NAN)