By Harrison Arubu Abuja –  The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has called for an aggressive war against agents and beneficiaries of corruption on the African continent. The Acting Chairman of the ICPC, Mr Musa Abubakar, made the call at an event organised by the commission to mark the 2018 African Anti-Corruption Day in Abuja on Wednesday. Quoting an official source, Abubakar described corruption as the “most pressing governance and development challenge” facing the continent. According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes (UNODC), corruption costs the African continent over 148 billion dollars annually, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. Abubakar said, “We affirm the need to wage aggressive fight against those who practice corruption and institutions that benefit from its proceeds. “It is by so doing that we will restore public trust in our leaders and institutions on the continent,” he said. The ICPC boss urged African countries that were yet to ratify the African Union Convention on Preventing and Combating Corruption (AUCPCC) to do so without further delay. He stated that the AUCPCC was not only an instrument for joint action against corruption in Africa, but also an avenue for countries to share experiences in the fight. NAN reports that the AUCPCC was adopted on July 1, 2003, and came into force on Aug. 5, 2006. As at 2017, the treaty had been ratified by 38 out of the 55 African countries that signed it, leaving 17 still on the fence. Abubakar expressed the ICPC’s commitment to the AU’s vision of making Africa less tolerant to corruption. He noted that by marking the African Anti-Corruption Day, ICPC was not only creating public awareness about the fight, but also creating opportunities for citizens to fulfill their aspirations in a corruption-free society. Mr Ahmed Suleiman, Head of the State House Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU), commended the ICPC for making its anti-corruption efforts inclusive. Suleiman said through the ACTU set up by the ICPC in government ministries, departments and agencies, civil servants were now conscious of the ills and consequences of corruption. He urged Nigerians to take ownership of the fight for it to be effective and sustainable. A civil society leader, Evelyn Ogbogu, stressed the need for the fight against corruption to start from the home front. Ogbogu challenged women to be in the lead by inculcating moral values in their children, showing them good examples and questioning the sources of their husbands’ wealth. Another civil society leader, Mr Stephen Ime, advised Nigerians to stop seeing the anti-corruption campaign of the current administration as a political one. Ime also urged citizens to stand up against individuals and institutions undermining the fight against corruption. A youth leader, Ovo Otarigho, called on Nigerian youths to take the fight against corruption personal because they were mostly at the receiving end of the menace. NAN reports that the African Anti-Corruption Day is commemorated on July 11 every year to give prominence to the fight against corruption on the continent. Wednesday’s event drew participants from various ministries, departments and agencies, civil society organisations and other stakeholders.  (NAN)