By Gami Tadanyigbe Abuja –    Devatop Centre for African Development (DCAD), an NGO, has called on the Federal Government to make tougher laws against human trafficking, to curb illicit trafficking in persons in the country. Mr Joseph Osuigwe, the executive director of the organisation, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Saturday to commemorate the 2018 World Day Against Trafficking in Persons. According to him, human trafficking has brought about the ongoing humanitarian crisis around the globe as they affect migrants, hence the need to enact tougher laws to bring the menace to an end. “Nigeria has become a fertile ground for human trafficking with the highest number of victims, due to lack of social protection for those living in poverty. “Human trafficking seems to concern only civil society organisations, maybe because political leaders feel it does not affect them directly. “From what is happening, human trafficking has become an endemic problem in Nigeria, the rich are not totally exempted from the negative impact of this outbreak if not tackled,” he warned. The director drew the attention of the government and the society to the seemingly endless losses of Nigerian lives caused by irregular illicit migration. He also called on political leaders to show political will and commitment in combating and preventing human trafficking in the country. “Citizens, especially the youths should hold their political leaders accountable to human trafficking incidences, and demand strategic actions to tackle the menace. “Any aspirant, who cannot sincerely demonstrate political will and commitment to combating human trafficking, has no plan to protect the future of young people. “It has become important to curb the activities of persons engaged in the illicit and irregular migration business who have lured many desperate youths into their untimely deaths,” Osuigwe said. He, therefore, appealed to the National Assembly and the Federal Government to make tougher laws against human trafficking in Nigeria. Besides, the director advised youths in the country not to be enticed with money and be lured into prostitution by anybody, but should be contented with what they have.  (NAN)