By Franca Ofili Abuja –   The Chartered Quality Institute (CQI) and the International Register of Certified Auditors (IRCA) have certified Standards Organisation of Nigeria Training Services (STS) Centre as an Approved Training Partner (ATP). Mr Osita Aboloma,the Director-Genera, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), said this in a statement in Abuja on Friday. Aboloma said that the centre is the first and only CQI and IRCA approved training centre in Nigeria and the West Africa Region. According to him, the certification is the precursor to the international accreditation of STS courses and part of the overall repositioning of the agency’s services for global competitiveness. “The certification is to ensure that appropriate systems and processes are in place and continuously maintained to provide effective and efficient management. “It will ensure the development and operational delivery of CQI and IRCA certified courses to industry, government and non-governmental organisations as well as private individuals in Nigeria.’’ Aboloma explained that the recognition was attained following the provision of huge resources at the SON Ogba training facility with the concerted efforts of staff of the STS. “CQI and IRCA certified courses offer some of the best trainings for quality, environment, services and auditing professionals in the world, given its global recognition and approval by employers and industry. “They also provide a boost to practitioners’ employment prospects.” Aboloma said that the courses to be offered would be at three levels — Foundation, Internal Auditor and Transition — as well as Lead Auditor and Conversion courses. He said that part of the criteria for the maintenance of the STC certification were CQI collection of direct delegate feedback, analysis of the pass rates, annual self-assessment, desktop documents review and on-site validation visits. Aboloma said that the trainees would be provided with the skills and knowledge to support application for CQI membership or IRCA certification.  (NAN)