By Aisha Cole  Lagos,   –    The Apapa Area 1 Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said it generated N176.75 billion in the first half of 2018, from the N165.74 billion it generated during the same period in 2017. The command’s Spokesman, Mrs Nkeiruka Nwala, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Friday. Nwala said the increase in revenue was due to the implementation of the Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System II (NICIS II) in Apapa, which had blocked revenue leakages in cargo clearance procedures. She said the revenue would have been more but for the ongoing repair of roads in the Apapa axis, which had affected the quick evacuation of cargoes. She said the command would build on its revenue profile in the remaining months ahead to meet its 426 billion target for 2018. Besides, Nwalla said the Customs Area Controller, Comptroller Jibril Musa, had effectively implemented the Federal Government’s Executive Order on the Ease of Doing Business. According to her, the command is one of those selected to implement the presidential mandate. She added that the command had since created the Central Examination Centre (CEC) where all stakeholders involved in cargo clearance conducted examination at an agreed time with reports imputed almost immediately. “The synergy between Customs and stakeholders had improved the operations of officers at various terminals. “The area controller has pledged to keep strengthening the existing working relationship and collaboration among all agencies of government for enhanced international trade facilitation,” she said. According to her, the controller has urged importers to make honest declarations in order to achieve quick clearance and release of their cargoes. She appealed to all stakeholders and the general public to cooperate with the NCS in ensuring total compliance with the extant laws and regulations of Customs procedures. Nwalla also commended the management of the NCS for providing all necessary tools for officers, which had multiplier effects on the revenue generation profile of the command.