By Victor Adeoti Osogbo –   Some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the aegis of Development Advocacy Group(DAG) on Tuesday in Osogbo staged a peaceful protest against the zoning of the party’s governorship ticket. The protesters numbering hundreds, who carried placards with various inscriptions, marched from the popular Ayetoro Road through Olaiya area to the party’s secretariat on Gbongan-Ibadan road. Some of the inscriptions on the placards read: ” Evaluate merit not sentiment, “Good governance is about merit and not zoning and “ Don’t divide us, we stand on merit.’’ The protest, which lasted more than two hours, resulted in a gridlock on major roads. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there had been agitation by some members of the party that the governorship ticket for the Sept. 22 election be zoned to Osun West Senatorial District of the state. NAN also recalls that some members of APC from the zone had on July 6 staged a protest, insisting that the party’s candidate must emerge from the West District. As a result of the agitation, the party’s primary slated for July 7 was postponed. Dr Ademola Oyedokun, the spokesperson for the group, told newsmen at the party’s secretariat that merit should not be sacrificed on the altar of zoning. Oyedokun said the agitation for zoning was a mere emotional tool and a negative value to serve the interest of a few stalwarts and not the people of the state. “The ordinary man is concerned with a decent life and not the region that produces the governor. ” Poverty, hunger, illiteracy and insecurity do not know any zone or region and that is why we are against it. ” What we want is the best and wherever that best will come from is a welcome development to us. “We do not want a situation whereby we will promote mediocrity at the altar of merit,’’ he said. Oyedokun urged the party leadership to provide a level playing ground for all the aspirants for the best to emerge. NAN reports that 29 aspirants on the platform of APC had so far expressed intention to contest the party’s primary slated for July 19. (NAN)