By Douglas Okoro Izzi (Ebonyi) –  The Federal Government has urged the communities in Ebonyi and Cross River that had engaged in renewed boundary hostilities to embrace peace. The Minister of Interior, Retired Lt.-Gen Abdulrahman Dambazau, made the call on Tuesday in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi after visiting the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in the area. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that fresh hostilities broke out recently over boundary disputes between Ukele people in Yala Local Government Area of Cross River and the people of Igbeagu in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi. Dambazau said that the Federal Government would do everything within the ambit of the law to ensure that lasting peace returned to the affected communities. He urged the people of Igbeagu not to carry out any form of reprisal attack on Cross River people. The minister also called on the people of Igbeagu community to go about their lawful activities. According to him, the Federal Government in collaboration with the Ebonyi Government would ensure the speedy resettlement of the IDPs and resolution of the boundary disputes. “I am here today to access the situation on the ground. “Before now, I had visited the other side, Cross River, where I discussed with the State Government. While the security agencies also briefed me. “Since Monday when I arrived here, I had been with the Deputy Governor, who also briefed. “And I have a very good picture of the situation on ground from which we will go back, sit down and find lasting solution. “But I cannot leave without coming to see you in the IDPs camp and as I can see here, the bulk of these victims are women and children. “I want to assure you that the Federal Government is not happy about your situation,” Dambazau said. He noted that the Federal Government would not allow a recurrence of such hostilities between the two neighboring communities. According to him, what happened will not happen again and that nobody will uproot another from his or her home. He assured of the desire of the Federal Government to guarantee normal life. “Nobody gains when there is crisis, any side that thinks he is gaining in this crisis is just deceiving himself or herself, because nobody gains. “Every problem has a solution, but we cannot get that solution unless we sit down and work for it. “But finding solution to this, is our own problem. We, the leaders, will sit down and look at it. So, it is our responsibility to ensure that your security is guaranteed. “Leave matters in the hands of security agencies, we will handle it perfectly, we will do everything possible to ensure that you return to your homes, ” he said.  (NAN)