By Cecilia Ijuo  Abuja   –     The residence of the President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, was on Tuesday morning besieged by men of the Nigeria Police Force. In a related development, the residence of the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, was also under siege by security operatives and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). As at the time of filing the report, details of the siege was not known. Calls made to the Special Adviser to Saraki on Media, Mr Yusuph Olaniyonu was not successful as his line was busy. Saraki was invited yesterday by the police to answer to allegations against him in connection to the Offa robbery. However, confirming the siege on Sen. Ekweremadu’s residence, the Special Adviser to Ekweremadu in a telephone interview, said the residence was under siege. “The house of the DSP is presently surrounded by DSS, and EFCC operatives,” he said. Meanwhile, Yusuph Olaniyonu, the media adviser to Senator Bukola Saraki ,said on his twitter account that the residence of his principal was blocked by the police Tuesday morning. He also claimed the house of deputy senate President, Ike Ekweremadu has also been surrounded by DSS agents. However, security agents have not spoken on why the actions were taken. The convoy was about to leave the house at about 7am when the police arrived. “When the convoy was cleared to go at about 7.30 a.m, some police vehicles trailed it up to the National Assembly complex.” NAN recalls that Saraki has been invited by the Inspector General of Police to report at 8a.m today at Guzape Police station to give further statement on the multiple robbery incidents that occurred in Offa, Kwara, on 5 April, in which 31 people were killed. Some of the suspects arrested had alleged that they are working for Saraki as thugs used by the politician to cow opponents. In a letter sent to Saraki on Monday night, Idris asked him to make himself available to the head of the Investigation Team at the Intelligence Response Team at Guzape Junction, Asokoro Extension, Abuja at 8a.m. The police had on June 4 asked for Saraki’s reaction to the statement made by some of the suspects arrested in connection to the most deadly robbery in the history of Nigeria. Saraki wrote a statement dated June 7. Idris ruled the statement inadequate. “After a careful perusal of your letter to the Police, it was discovered that the statement requires further clarification and coupled with the fact that you stated that the full text of the statements of the suspects were not shown to you, it is imperative you report to the Police to make further statements after giving you the full text of the statements of the suspects. “It is in line with the above that you are requested to report to the head of the Investigation Team at the Intelligence Response Team at Guzape Junction, Asokoro Extension, Abuja on 24th of July, 2018 at 8a.m for further investigation on the matter.” In a response last night, Saraki described the invitation as a mere afterthought which was designed to achieve political purpose.