By Ismaila Chafe Abuja –  President Muhammadu Buhari, on Monday, on the sidelines of his official visit to The Hague, Netherlands, expressed satisfaction over the quality of Nigerian professionals in that country. Femi Adesina, Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity made this known in a statement on Monday in Abuja. “I am pleased with the quality of people I am seeing. You are high quality people. Congratulations on your personal achievements,” he said. Buhari, who met with members of Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO), the Netherlands chapter, said he was quite pleased with their intellectual and professional achievements. The president lauded them for representing Nigeria well, and for always being in touch with their motherland. Speaking on behalf of the delegation, Julius Nwankpa, the Chairman of NIDO in Netherlands, commended the president for the war against corruption, “for which you have earned respect around the world”. He also lauded the president for the recorded improvement in infrastructural development, and for signing into law the Diaspora Commission Bill. He, however, expressed the hope the bill would “become effective as soon as possible”. On the security situation in Nigeria, the NIDO Chairman urged the government and security team to accelerate stoppage of unfortunate killings, while calling on Nigerians “to play their roles in breaking the cycle of violence, which usually has no winner”. The delegation presented the gift of an artwork called Light to the president with the creator of the work, Toyin Loyo saying: “The work is illuminating. You bring light, which will never go out, and which will shine round the clock.’’ Among those who met with the president at the event were Julius Nwankpa, Chairman NIDO, Dr Mustapha Gidado, a specialist in tuberculosis, who oversees the management of the disease in 22 countries and Lola Visser Mabogunje, a performance monitoring expert. Others were Dr Peter Ngene, a research scientist and Assistant Professor at Utrecht University, Engineer Cornelius Obot, a software expert, and Toyin Loyo, an artist and culture enthusiast of international repute.  NAN