By Yemi Adeleye Lagos –   A Lagos- based medical expert, Dr Dokun Adedeji, on Saturday urged religious organisations and families to collaborate with the government in the fight against drug abuse in the country. Adedeji, the National Coordinator, Christ Against Drugs Abuse Ministry (CADAM), a faith-based group, made the appeal while addressing key youth leaders of the Deeper Life Bible Church (DLBC) in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting was in preparation for the Church’s annual National Youths Success Camp (NYSC) in August. According to him, except the government, religious organisations and society wake up to challenge the trend, the danger is huge for the nation. “We believe that the weapon against substance abuse resides in the religious organisations like church, because they see a lot of young people on regular basis, unlike regular hospitals. “So, if they (religious organisations) can take the information and sensitisation to whole places and churches are committed , the nation will find a drop in the use of substance. “ We should get involved with the addicts. We must talk about it from the altar. The government must not rest because the danger is huge for the nation, society and families. “We must monitor the youth; set up a counselling unit of knowledgeable people; monitor things sold around churches and parks, to save these young Nigerians. “We are in difficult times. The society is safe no more because of these substances being consumed daily in Nigeria. “The church and society have to come in. They should show drug addicts love and support. These young people can change,” Adedeji said. The doctor, who listed various substances with different names, said that it had become imperative for youth leaders to focus attention on the menace. According to him, addicts should not be punished because it will be double jeopardy for the victims; rather, they should be counselled. Adedeji, who urged parents to assist the nation by showing love and support to addicts, urged the government to clamp down on the sales of the drugs, to rescue the nation’s future leaders. The expert, who commended Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode for the Lagos State Kick Against Drugs Abuse (LASKADA) Initiative, said that efforts should be intensified by the Federal Government and the National Assembly, to address the challenge. “The issues of dealing with drugs are collective- the homes, schools, churches, mosques, government and every sphere of the society. The consequences are huge. “Many of the drug-manufacturing companies were elevating their families while destroying many lives. It is dangerous to fold hands,” he said. Pastor Gboyega Senfuye, the Lagos State Youth Leader of DLBC, commended Adedeji for the enlightenment, saying it was impressive. (NAN)