By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja （Sundiata Post） –  The Labour Party has denied involvement in the recently formed coalition by Nigerian politicians. The party in a statement alleged that former National Chairman (Abdulkadir Abdulsalam), who was removed at the Special National Convention of the Party, held on 3rd October, 2017, impersonated the National Chairman and masqueraded as the Party’s Official and committed the Party to the so called coalition by signing a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on behalf of the party. Chairman of the Labour Party, Dr. Mike Omotosho disassociated the party in a statement he signed made available to newsmen. The statement reads in full： The attention of the National Leadership of the Labour Party has been drawn to the purported inclusion of the Labour Party in the recent coalition formed by some group of Nigerian Politicians, under the guise of Grand Alliance. Information at our disposition revealed that our former National Chairman (Abdulkadir Abdulsalam), who was removed at the Special National Convention of the Party, held on 3rd October, 2017, impersonated the National Chairman and masqueraded as the Party’s Official and committed the Party to the so called coalition by signing a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on behalf of the party. We wish to unequivocally state that Labour Party is NOT part of any coalition. The Leadership of the Party has not been consulted, neither has there been any formal meeting or agreement between our Party and any other Political Party in Nigeria in this respect. The Labour Party is not only a political Party but a Political Movement, guided by its ethics, values, principles and social ideology, where all actions are taken in consideration of due process. If there was any need for the Party to join any coalition, the consent and the approval of the National Working Committee NWC and the National Executive Council (NEC) would have been sought before such a huge organ decision is taken.  It is an undisputable fact that the Nigeria Labour Congress and its allies, the TUC and the civil society, are the owners of the Party. Such a vital decision to join a coalition cannot be effected without the approvals of their respective governmental organs. As it stands now, neither the NWC, NEC, nor NLC are aware or privy to this crocket coalition engagement. The commitment of our Party to this unholy alliance is therefore the fiery imaginations and fictions of a few recalcitrant members and borne out of their hurriedness to mortgage the Party for their selfish political end. We hereby disassociate our great party, the Labour Party, from such a clandestine gathering, calculated to further throw the political atmosphere of Nigeria into more heinous confusion. As the nation prepare for the upcoming elections, the Labour party is consulting with party stakeholders, mobilizing our members and preparing our candidates for elective offices. Whilst we are not averse to partnering with other like-minded group and parties seeking to help transform the nation, we are at the moment more concerned about challenging the current administration to deliver more on their promises. We challenge them to deliver more for the Nigerian worker, most of whom still struggle to eke a living from their wages and salaries. To conclude, we summit that the vision and mission of this coalition is not yet clear to Labour Party, we therefore at this moment cannot subject the party to an alliance whose objectives and goals is currently not understood. We therefore call on all peace loving Nigerians to disregard all allusions to the inclusion of the Labour Party and those of the NLC & TUC, our party’s key promoter, as members of any collation. Where such collaborations are being explored, the National Executive Council, headed by the Chairman, Dr. Mike Omotosho, will formally communicate to all stakeholders. Until such a period, anyone that transacts any form of business with such group does so at his/her own perils. The general public is hereby warn. Chairman
Labour Party
Dr. Mike Omotosho