By Mohammed Lawal  Zaria    –      The Governing Council of Shehu Idris College of Health Science Technology, (SICHST) Makarfi, Kaduna State has exonerated the college ex-bursar, Labaran Muntari-Usman of all allegations of sexual harassment. Documents obtained by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday indicated that the council agreed that the allegations were baseless, malicious and a vendetta meant to tarnish the good image of the ex- bursar. It noted that the allegation was an attempt to smear the good name of Muntari-Usman because of his “firmness, fight against corruption and aggressiveness in response to official issues.’’ The council cautioned the management of the institution against entertaining anonymous petitions, noting that the two petitions against the ex-bursar had no valid signatories. The report said: “The Governing Council in its emergency sitting dated March 26, 2018 received from the Commissioner, Ministry of Health and Human Resources, Kaduna State, two different copies of petitions against the recently ex bursar, Labaran Muntari Usman of the college for investigation. “The Council therefore, constituted a 3-man Adhoc Committee to carry out the task,” it noted. It added that Hajiya Ramatu Abdullahi-Dogara, a member of the governing council headed the committee with Seth M. Ali, representing the ministry as member while Dauda Magaji-Rilwanu, representing Academic Specialties of the college served as Secretary. The report said the committee had after series of meetings and review of the earlier investigation by the Nigeria Security Civil Defence Corps exonerated the ex-bursar as all those mentioned in the petition had disowned it. “Any anonymous/faceless petition should henceforth not be entertained,’’ it said, adding that “the allegations of sexual harassment against the accused, Labaran Muntari Usman should be disregarded,’’ including earlier media report on his alleged involvement in sexual harassment at the college. The council reprimanded one of the staff of the college mentioned in the petition as the alleged victim of sexual harassment, Sadiya Labbo on her poor attitude to work, stressing that issues between her and the ex-bursar were found to be purely administrative. She was found to have reported for duty only about 18 times in six months. The council approved that guidance and counselling sessions be organised for the entire staff of the college to improve their relationship with one another.