By Joshua Olomu Durban (South Africa) –  Mr Mack Dollvins, Chief Executive Officer of Artvision, a filmmaking and capacity building firm based in South Africa, has called for the translation and distribution of Nollywood films in local languages in that country.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Dollvins made the call on Friday during an interactive session with officials of the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) in Durban, South Africa.
The officials, led by Mr Adedayo Thomas, Executive Director of the board, visited the Artvision studio as part of engagement with stakeholders during the Durban International festival holding from July 19 to 29.
According to him, Nollywood films are gaining more popularity and acceptance among the South African audience, noting that language barrier is however affecting viewership, especially in rural communities.
“Nigeria has been inspiring us with their content, but majority of our locals don’t understand English language.
“Nollywood films are African contents, by Africans and should first be for African audience, and that is why we are making this demand on Nigerian film producers.
“We believe that the Nigerian content has inspired and impact Africans, especially South Africans, so let us put these films into local languages,” he said.
Dollvins added that since his organisation and other similar production companies in South Africa has the technical knowhow to translate such films into local languages, there was need to engage in formal arrangement with Nigerian content providers.
He explained that such will increase market presence for both countries’ filmmakers and ultimately promote acceptance and goodwill between citizens of the two countries.
“We want to build that partnership to get the permission to dub your movies and we do the distribution.
“Nigeria is leading in Africa in terms of contents and South Africa has the infrastructure and such partnership will be win-win for everyone.
“We are looking forward to collaborate, by matching our technology with your content to tell the rest of the world that Africa is ready now,” he said.
Responding, the NFVCB boss said the board, in line with its mandate, is willing to encourage all lawful initiatives that would promote Nigeria’s film and video sector.
He assured that once the licensing and classification requirements for movies are met, he would support their distribution.
“The board will assist to ensure the right of the film owners are secured by Artvision,” Thomas said.  (NAN)