By Abujah Racheal  Abuja   –     The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), on Wednesday, urged Christians to intensify their prayers for the peace and progress of the country Uja, made this call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), while reacting to the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), declaration of National Day of prayer and fasting programme against the killings across the country. The NCPC boss said that prayer remained the key to the resolution of the country’s numerous socio-economic, political and security challenges. He called on the Church to continue to pray for God’s intervention and that things would get better for the country in all ramifications. “The Church should remain fervent in prayers for the healing of the land, ‘enough is enough’ on killings across the nation. “Fervent and effective prayers will make our leaders to do what is right toward peace and the development of the country. “I urge everyone in this country to rise and seek for God’s mercy and intervention in every ugly situation in the country,’’ he said. According to him, Nigerians must continue to have faith and keep trusting God for a better country. “Let everyone continue to keep praying and doing the right things for the country to get better,’’ he said. He, however, called on the church to believe in the motto of this nation by preaching Unity and Faith, Peace and Progress at all times for the nation. Uja also urged the government to rise up to its responsibilities of protecting lives and property of Nigerians, and prosecute suspects arrested for the killings across the country. He also warned Nigerians against making inflammatory statements that can worsen the already tense situation in the country. “The responsibility of all persons of faith is so immense, including the obligation to uphold truth and to promote ethical conduct and respect for others. “Anyone who wishes to be magisterial to issue statements laden with certainty to their followers must first ensure that what they say, or what they are saying is not only factual, but does not result to violence,” he advised.