By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja –  Malam Bolaji Abudullahi, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Publicity Secretary said the party would investigate the membership status of the members of the Reformed APC. Abudullahi, in a statement on Thursday in Abuja, said those behind the reformed APC were ill-advised. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Alhaji Buba Galadima, National Chairman of the reformed APC announced the break out of some members of the APC , from the party, to form the group on Wednesday in Abuja. Galadima was the National Secretary of the defunct Congress for Progressives Change (CPC) and a founding member of APC. The APC spokesman, however, maintained that the party was not fictionalised despite the development. “On Wednesday July 4, 2018, a group of individuals announced itself as ‘Reformed APC, by their actions, this group has attempted to create the impression that our party is factionalised. “This is not true; the APC wishes to affirm that there is no faction in our party and declares the action by these individuals as ill-advised. “Having failed to scuttle the National Convention as was their original plan, they now resort to this subterfuge as a way of achieving the pre-determined end of causing confusion. “We are currently investigating their true membership status within the party’’, Abudullahi said. He added that APC would continue to monitor developments, saying that it would not hesitate to take lawful actions to defend the unity, identity and sanctity of the party. “As a matter of fact, we doubt that these individuals parading as leaders of the so called faction are actual members of our party.” Abudullahi added that the party was reviewing the action of the so-called faction to determine if any aspect of the party’s constitution had been breached with the connivance of any of its members. The national public secretary assured members of the party with genuine grievances of the commitment of its new leadership, under Mr Adams Oshiomhole, to address them as quickly as possible to ensure justice. (NAN)