By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Senator representing Kaduna central senatorial district at the National Assembly, Comrade Senator Shehu Sani has described the siege on the home of Senate President, Bukola Saraki and invasion of the House of Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu as a condemnable act that rubbishes the image of the government and undermines our democracy. Shehu Sani who is known for his vocal criticism of ills that undermine our national life and jeopardise national unity, disclosed this on Wednesday when he took to twitter handle @ShehuSani. According to him, “The siege on the House of the Senate President and the invasion of the Deputy Senate President is an utterly condemnable act. It Rubbishes the image of the Government and undermines our democracy.” Recall that on Tuesday (yesterday), there was simultaneous besiegement on the official residences of Senate President, Bukola Saraki and his Deputy, Senator Ike Ekweremadu by the security operatives. Earlier, the President of the senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki had in a statement on Monday night alleged that police invitation asking him to report to its Guzape Station over offa robbery investigation  was a mere afterthought designed to achieve political purpose. Saraki said he was reliably informed that the police invitation was planned by IG as a ploy to stop an alleged plan by some Senators and House of Representatives members from defecting from the All Progressives Congress (APC). He continued: “It was also said that if I was detained between Tuesday and Wednesday, that will abort the so-called defection plan. Saraki reiterating he has no case to answer said, “I am aware that following a request made by the Police on June 13, 2018 to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) of the Fedeeation had written a legal advice dated June 22, 2018, in which he stated on page 5, paragraph (f) that “For the Senate President and the Kwara State Governor, this office is unable to establish from the evidence in the interim report a nexus between the alleged office and the suspects”. “This plot aimed at compelling me and my associates to stay in a party where members are criminalised without just cause, where injustice is perpetrated at the highest level and where there is no respect for constitutionalism is an exercise in futility and it will fail, Saraki maintained. 