By Hamza Suleiman Maiduguri –   Tricycle operators under the aegis of Association of Tricycle Riders Transport Union in Borno on Monday embarked on a protest over alleged extortion and illegal detention of its members by the police. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the operators barricaded major roads in Maiduguri metropolis. The road leading to the Borno Government House was among those barricaded by the protesters. NAN also reports that the operators also took their protest to Dandal Police Station where some of their members were allegedly being detained. The protest impeded human and vehicular movement for several hours in the metropolis. Abbagana Tukur, a tricycle operator, accused the police of extortion and illegal arrest. “They tell us to pay N2, 000 daily without any reason. When you don’t pay the N2, 000, they will seize your tricycle and sometimes detain you in the police station, “he said. Babagana Abiso, another tricycle operator, said that they pay N500 daily to policemen at various checkpoints. “Many of us have stopped operating through Dandal and Shehu Palace general area because of constant extortion and intimidation, “he said. Sani Barau, another tricycle operator in the Customs Area of the metropolis, alleged that the police extort money from him routinely. “When you pay N500, they always get angry and arrest you and then force you to pay N2, 000. “This is not new in Maiduguri. We have reported them but nothing is being done about it, ’’he said. But DSP Edet Okon, the Police Public Relation Officer in the state, claimed the operators were protesting illegal collection of levies by local government officials. Okon, who said the situation had been brought under control, added that the operators were protesting non-provision of motor parks for their operation. “They were promptly addressed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, DCP Maiyaki Baba, and the State Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice. “The situation has been brought under control and no life was lost. “The Commissioner of Police in Borno State, CP Damian Chukwu, urges members of the public to be law abiding and always endeavour to report their grievances to the police or appropriate government agencies. “He urges members of the public to go about their lawful activities without fear as the police will continue to work to ensure their safety, “said Okon.  (NAN)