By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja –   Mr Adams Oshiomhole, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman says that the party is yet to receive any court order against its candidate for the Ekiti State governorship election, Dr Kayode Fayemi. He said this on Wednesday in Abuja, while fielding questions from journalists on the pending suit against Fayemi by the former APC Deputy National Chairman, South-west, Mr Segun Oni under the auspices of Segun Oni Campaign Organisation (SOCO). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Oni, who came distant second in the rescheduled APC primary election conducted for 33 aspirants vying for the Ekiti State governorship election, sued Fayemi on the grounds that the APC flag bearer contested the primary election while still serving as a minister. Oshiomhole, however, insisted that the party was not aware of the development since no court paper had been served on it. “What is important is that Segun Oni spoke eloquently during the flag-off of the campaign, he is a complete gentleman and I have a lot of respect for him. “He spoke and I believe that he spoke from the heart, but in this business, you can hear all sorts of things on the social media. “I am here as the National Chairman of the APC and I believe that if someone takes us to court, I would have been served court papers. “So, let me say that there is no such thing, but however, we know that the opponent can sponsor publications and try to plant confusion,” he said. He added that the plan of the opposition was to make the APC turn against itself which he said would not work. Oshiomhole maintained that the APC is however, far more sophisticated than that and would not turn against itself. The national chairman added that the APC would face the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) squarely at the July 14 Ekiti governorship election which he said would be lost and won on merit. He stressed that the election was as good as won for the APC as the party has a candidate who was not new to governance and has good track records in public service. “Those manipulative tools will not be used this time, and so, the incumbent governor will have to learn an art that he was never familiar with. “He has to learn how to persuade and convince the electorate, this time around, they will have to win and not to rig. “I have fought PDP in Edo, just relying on mobilisation and persuasion and we know how to win. We will fall back on those conventional tools of winning election. “And because they are not in that group, they cannot start learning new tricks, so Ekiti is as good as won,” he said. Also, Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi and Chairman of the APC Ekiti State Governorship Campaign Committee assured that the party would be victorious at the election. He said he came to the APC National Secretariat to brief its leadership on preparations for the election so far. “All party members from President Muhammadu Buhari to members in Ekiti have been working hard towards the realisation of this campaign objective. “Yesterday, we held a meeting of the Ekiti Governorship Campaign Council and Segun Oni was there and participated in the meeting,” he said. (NAN)