By Abolade Ogundimu Abuja –   Yoruba Ronu Leadership Forum, a socio-cultural group, says allegation of incompetence against the Federal Government by leaders of some groups across the country is deceptive. The forum is reacting to a communiqué issued by Afenifere, Ohaneze Ndigbo, Northern Elders Forum (NEF) and Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) in which they criticised the performance of the present administration. The forum called on leadership of other socio-cultural groups to also mention some achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration while pointing out the shortcomings. Mr Akin Malaolu, the Secretary-General, Yoruba Ronu Leadership Forum, made the observation in a statement issued on Saturday in Abuja. He said that although there were growing concerns about killings and insurgency in some parts of the country, efforts made by the present administration to contain the situation was worth mentioning. “For leaders of the groups to be united in passing jaundiced judgments on the administration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is unfair. “It shows lack of accuracy in measuring achievements of Buhari and his team at this material time in our national history. “Such statement is least expected at a time when security agencies are recording successes in arrest of masterminds of mindless killings and abductions across the country, including the Chibok school girls. “Military and other security agencies need to be encouraged for such performance by any patriotic group, not condemned in a ploy to spite the Federal Government. “Cry of incompetence, high unemployment rate as claimed by the groups show the absence of accuracy and wisdom in their measurement of the nation’s recent achievements. “Presently, the government has been able to start Ajaokuta Steel Rolling Mills after decades of neglect by past governments. “Buhari’s government has a good show in agricultural development, a standard growth in power supply generation, a favourable increase in railway density and many others. “The recent unveiling of the national carrier — Nigerian Air — which is capable of boosting economic development through positive multiplier effects on virtually everything is another plus. “We urge leaders not to be allowed to be used as agents of division or help to create unneeded incitements that will do the nation no good. “The nation is greater than politics and that alone must be uppermost in leaders’ minds,’’ Malaolu said. He restated that the Yoruba would always remain in the progressive fold in their desire for honest governance. Afenifere, Ohaneze Ndigbo, NEF and PANDEF in a communiqué, have criticised the performance of the present administration. The communiqué contains the concerns of the groups bordering on perceived abuse and disrespect for the rule of law as well as violation of election processes. (NAN)