By Yemi Adeleye Lagos –  The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) South-West, on Tuesday resolved to endorse Chief Martin Onovo, a 2019 presidential hopeful, as the face of the “New Nigeria”. The South-West Chairman of the CNPP, Alhaji Yinka Olona, disclosed this at the 2018 Summit of the conference, tagged: “Rebuilding Democratic Values in Nigeria”, held in Lagos. Onovo is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the National Conscience Party (NCP) Olona said that the CNPP recognised Onovo’s invaluable contributions to the growth of democracy and good governance in Nigeria. “Consequently, the entire members of CNPP in the South-West have resolved to recognise you as the face of the New Nigeria, in endorsement of your vision for the New Nigeria of our dream. “Onovo is a right man and he can do the job if given the opportunity. We are not, however, unmindful of the possibility of other people coming on board,” he said. The chairman said that the summit was organised to look at the nation’s democracy and how it could be moved forward. According to him, the conference will give its support to any presidential candidate that can stem the tide of killings, promote rule of law and ensure economic prosperity for ordinary Nigerians. In his address, Onovo said that Nigeria’s problem was bad leadership. He said that the country had both human and material resources to create prosperity for its citizens. According to him, terrorism, poverty, corruption, abuse of power, unemployment, high crime rate, lawlessness, among others, however, remain drawbacks in the country. “Most compatriots yearn for new Nigeria. It is our duty as patriotic politicians to get a clear vision of the new Nigeria and ensure the realisation of that vision. “The vision of a new Nigeria is a united, developed, peaceful, prosperous and powerful country. To achieve this vision, we must get the right leadership. “The right leader must be a new-breed politician that is patriotic, ethical, visionary and competent,” he said. According to him, such leader must come from the right geopolitical zone to prevent political domination, promote federal character, national unity and democratic representation. “If we get the right leadership in 2019, our super abundant human and material resources will be efficiently managed to achieve our vision of a new Nigeria. “2019 is the immediate opportunity we have to give Nigeria the right leadership. ”Let us pray, register to vote, evaluate candidates, support, vote and defend our votes,” he said. In his remark, Chief Odunayo Aduloju, representing Malam Balarabe Musa, the National Chairman of CNPP said the conditions of the country saddening for him. “We need a leader that is detribalized, who cares for the people’s welfare and that will bring us out of insecurity; an energetic youth,” Musa said. In his keynote address, Dr Adegbola Dominic, representing Chief Olabode George, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said that CNPP could shake the country again if united. According to him, true democracy is the hope of country, as power and sovereignty belong to the people, not their representatives. George called for the practice of true federalism, saying arbitrariness of power must not be tolerated. “Civility, moderation and reasonable compromise are the lubricant for successful democracy. “Citizens should work together for the good of all. The government should make laws that are good for everyone. Everyone should get same treatment,” he said.  (NAN)