By Ahmed Ubandoma Abuja –   The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has called on the management of Voice of America (VOA) to collaborate with her Future Assured Programme to assist children born with congenital problems in Nigeria. She made the call on Monday when the management of Voice of America (VOA) led by the Director, Amanda Bennet, paid her a courtesy visit at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The wife of the president said that the partnership would go a long way in assisting less privileged families who suffered to save the lives of their children. She said that the VOA played key role in educating the world on the dangers of drug abuse, stigmatisation against people living with HIV and AIDS, as well as women issues and child abuse. She informed the visiting team that her NGO, the Future Assured initiative, under the Buhari Foundation, had been running health and educational programmes, where less privileged families in country were assisted in many ways. Buhari added that the Hausa service of the VOA was part of Nigeria’s history, especially to families and communities in Northern part of the country. She noted that being an ardent listener of VOA Hausa service, the American radio station helped people to be conscious of the successes and challenges of government. She said that many listeners got to know about the successes recorded by the Buhari administration in the area of infrastructure, especially on road construction and railway projects through VOA. The VOA director said that the American radio station had wide coverage and listeners in Nigeria. Bennet said that the VOA also shared many things in common with the Future Assured initiative, especially in the areas of creating awareness on women and child health, as well as women participation in politics. The VOA director said that the organisation would launch a radio programme aimed at publicising socio-economic programmes of women, as well as gender violence against women. A member of the VOA delegation, Aliyu Mustapha, said that the collaboration became necessary considering the rising cases of abuse against women and children around the globe. The Senior Special Assistant to the President’s wife, Dr Hajo Sani, thanked the visiting VOA staff for programmes aimed at enlightening the public.  (NAN)