By Emmanuel Oloniruha   Abuja   –      A political pressure group, Oshimili North Arise, has appealed to Delta Governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, to intervene in the “protracted political alienation” of a section of Oshimili North Local Government Area in the state. The group, in a statement in Abuja on Sunday, said that one community, Ibusa, had since Delta was created in 1991, marginalized and oppressed other communities in the area, occupying all political offices available to all. In the statement signed by Ndu Ojejeh, Chairman and Carl Enumah, Secretary, the group said that from 1999 when the third Republic began, to date, Ibusa had consistently produced the representative of the area in the House of Assembly. Similarly, it stated that all commissionership slot for the area, save for the current holder of the slot, had gone to the community, same as chairman of the local government. According to the group, between 1999 and 2007, Dr Felicia Nwaeze, from Ibusa, was in the House of Assembly and was succeeded by Mrs Pat Ajudua, wife of Fred Ajudua, who has been there from 2007 to date. It said that currently, Mr Peter Nwaoboshi, also from Ibusa, who was commissioner in the two terms of James Ibori as governor, “is the Senator representing Delta North District at the Senate”. “In spite of these cases of marginalization and brazen insensitivity by Ibusa people, they are currently pushing with every might, for Ajudua or another person from the community to be in the Assembly in 2019. “Ibusa is only one community out of others, including Okpanam, Illah, Ebu, Akwukwu-Igbo (Headquarters), Ukala-Okpuno, Atuma, Aninwalo and Ukala-Okwute, in the local government area. “We are saying that for equity and justice, the House of Assembly position should go to any of the other communities in the area in 2019. “Besides, the current position of Nwaoboshi as senator should suffice as a huge political gain for Ibusa people as it dwarfs the positions of commissioner, house of assembly member and local government chairman, put together. “Rather than be the arrowhead for perpetuating political disequilibrium and disharmony in the area, Sen. Nwaoboshi should show gratitude, magnanimity and transparent leadership by letting other positions go outside Ibusa in 2019. “This is particularly so when the senator is pushing hard to return to the Red Chamber and everybody in the local government area has endorsed it and is in the vanguard for actualizing it,” the group said. The people urged the governor to intervene and ensure that justice and fairness prevailed in Oshimili North in distribution of political positions “since Nwaoboshi and his followers may want their domination sustained”. “The governor should help by intervening to check the arrogance with which Ibusa people perpetrate the lopsidedness, injustice and unpatriotic acts in handling of political issues in our area,” they said. The group also appealed to Okowa to ensure that primary elections were conducted for all positions ahead of the 2019 polls “in the new spirit of PDP devoid of imposition and impunity”. The group added that Nwaoboshi, like the governor, should show good political leadership laced with tolerance, justice, accommodation, selflessness and inclusiveness.