By Naomi Sharang Abuja –   A Bill seeking the amendment to the 1999 Constitution to accommodate State and Community Police passed first reading in the Senate on Thursday. Deputy Majority Leader, Sen. Bala Na’Allah, moved that the Bill be read for the first time at the plenary. In a brief remark, Deputy President of the Senate, Sen. Ike Ekweremadu, who presided, said that Committee on Constitution Review had fulfilled its mandate. Ekweremadu, who is the Chairman, of the review committee, said “now the Bill has been taken for the first time. “I am sure that as soon as possible, we will take the Second Reading and probably send it to public hearing through the committee so that we fast-track it as directed by the Senate.” . The Senate had on July 3, opted for State Police as panacea to insecurity currently bedevilling the country and urged the committee to give it attention within two weeks. Meanwhile, Ekweremadu, in a statement explained that the Bill sought to establish the Federal Police and State Police, while also creating the National Police Service Commission, National Police Council, and State Police Service Commission for the states. “The Federal Police, according to the Bill, shall be responsible for the maintenance of public security, preservation of public order and security of persons and property throughout the federation. “It shall also provide state policing for any state that is unable to operate a State Police until such a time that a State Police is established by the House of Assembly of that state”. He also said that the Bill proposed the appointment of the Commissioner of Police of a state by the Governor on the advice of the National Police Service Commission and subject to confirmation of the House of Assembly. “While the term of office of the Commissioner of Police shall be for a period of five years only or until he attains a retirement age prescribed by law, whichever is earlier.” Ekweremadu assured that the Bill would receive utmost attention. (NAN)