By Aminu Garko Minna –  The Police Command in Niger has arrested 14 suspects for kidnapping, armed robbery, murder and theft in different parts of the state. The command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Mohammadu Abubakar, disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Minna. Abubakar said police detectives attached to GRA division, Minna, arrested two security guards both of Dutsen Kura for kidnapping one Afdal Mohammed Hadi, 10, and of the same address and demanded N150,000 from him . He said the two security guards were attached to guard the house of the victim. He said that the command had also arrested five suspects who belonged to an armed robbery gang that had been terrorising Borgu and Mariga local government areas. ” The suspects attacked one Yusuf Jinga of Tunga Madugu village of Borgu Local Government Area and also robbed one Alhaji Abubakar Danlami of Dutsen Magaji village of Mariga Local Government Area and stole one Gionee cell phone, a Torchlight and N25,000,” the police spokesman said. He said that police had recovered from the suspects one Dane gun; one locally made double barrel gun; a stick and a cutlass. According to him, police detectives attached to Sarkin Pawa Division in Munya Local Government Area traced and arrested one Yusuf Isa of Kofo village of Toto Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. He said they also arrested Sani Ahmed of Limawa quarters, Minna, with a Honda Civic belonging to one Zakiya Yahaya Lawal of Commissioner quarters, Minna. The two suspects confessed to have stolen the vehicle from Kure Ultra Modern Market Minna where it was parked. Abubakar said police in Nasko division arrested one Mohammed Maude of Makando village of Nasko Local Government Area for allegedly killing one Aliyu Ahmadu Makande on his farm . He said that the suspect confessed to have used a hoe to hit the deceased and he died on the spot. Similarly, he said, the command had arrested Mohammad Kudu and Danjuma Idris of Kpakungu area of Minna for allegedly stealing a motorcycle belonging to one Mr John Bosso of Ketare Gwari, Minna. ” The suspects confessed that they were sent to convey the motorcycle to one Sadam Duste in Kaduna State by one Abdulsami’u Abdulkareem of Farm Centre, Tunga, who was also arrested,” spokesman said . He said that all the suspects would be charged to court after investigation.  ( NAN)