By Constance Imasuen Abuja – The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) says it has established Broadband Implementation Committee to fast track the deployment of infrastructure to raise broadband penetration in the country. Prof. Umar Danbatta, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC made this disclosure at the commission’s stakeholders’engagement meeting with relevant state agencies in charge of telecommunications matters. The meeting’s theme is: “Optimising the Benefits of Telecoms Infrastructure in Nigeria’’. Danbatta said that the committee would ensure targeted deployment of infrastructure needed to raise broadband penetration to 30 per cent before the end of 2018 would be met. “The license has gone out to the Infrastructure Companies (INFRACOs), and we have a total of six of them in all zones of the country. “And each zone has infrastructure company licensed by NCC to deploy infrastructure in that zone and no licensee is allowed to deploy infrastructure in any other zone because it will develop  issues. “On top of all these efforts, there is a subsidy NCC intends to pay, this subsidy will be paid to INFRACO licensee for attainment of milestone. “The monitoring committee will confirm the milestone, verify that it had been attained and this subsidy will be paid,’’ he said. Danbatta said that the NCC was eager to support states in driving universal access to citizens in the remotest parts to universal affordability, accessibility and availability of service throughout the country. “This is a critical component of NCC’s Strategic Management Plan and 8-point Agenda,’’ he said. He said that NCC was keen to enable states maximise the benefits of broadband infrastructure and digital platforms to drive growth, create employment and improve socio-economic interactions. “In this regard, we are encouraging our licensees to explore opportunities for bilateral arrangements with your states. “We urge you to take advantage of these opportunities and launch your respective states into the digital age,’’ Danbatta said. Mr Sunday Dare, the Commissioner, Stakeholders Management of NCC said that over the years as telecoms infrastructure were becoming more ubiquitous, NCC licensees found it more and more difficult to meet prescribed rollout and quality of service benchmarks. Dare said that NCC carefully studied the issues and realised that the national network was not functioning at optimal levels due to a number of factors such as frequent interruptions, security of infrastructure, power issues, high cost of approvals and slow permitting processes. “We therefore enveloped an engagement template to deal with those factors that were understandably not within the control of the operators. “We approached the governors of the 36 states of the federation and the FCT through the National Economic Council for their assistance. “And in 2013, they agreed on basic principles to create a more enabling environment for the speedy deployment of new telecoms infrastructure and seamless operation of existing ones. “The 2013 framework is now being reviewed to address obvious gaps and to accommodate new developments, especially to achieve deeper broadband penetration and more efficient services. “We could just have limited our engagement to the governors. However, NCC strongly believes in applying well-tested approach of consultative regulation to our other endeavours, which is why we consider it critical to discuss with you. “This forum is therefore very critical to the development of our dear country and that is why it is centered on the theme of “Optimising the Benefits of Telecoms Infrastructure in Nigeria”. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting had in attendance representatives from over 26 states of the federation and FCT, amongst other stakeholders. (NAN)