By Philip Yatai  Kaduna   –    The National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), said on Monday that it had recommended 29 polytechnics to pioneer the Open, Distance and Flexible Learning (ODFL) programme in the country. Dr Masa’udu Kazaure, the NBTE Executive Secretary, made the disclosure in a message to the opening of a three-day stakeholders meeting to review the National ODFL Draft Policy and Strategy Documents. Kazaure, who was represented by Abbati Mohammed, a director at the NBTE, described ODFL as a system of teaching and learning with the use of multiple media for delivery of instructions or instructional materials. “ODFL teaching and learning focuses on opening access to education and training provisions, freeing learners from the constrain of time and space and offering adaptive and flexible learning opportunities, “he added. The official explained that the NBTE Governing Board approved that use of ODFL in the 29 polytechnics at its 81st meeting, but said the decision would have to be ratified by the National Council on Education. He said that once approved by the council, the policy would become operational as a national document for implementation by all relevant stakeholders in the country, beginning with the 29 polytechnics. According to Kazaure, the development is the outcome of the 2017 Innovation in Vocational and Education and Skills Development meeting with Commonwealth of Learning and partner institutions. He said that the meeting was on Flexible Skill Development and Tertiary Institutions E-learning Resource (TIER), and had recommended that NBTE provide operational guidelines for the implementation of ODFL and FSD schemes in Nigeria. “The NBTE in partnership with M8 Global Know Ltd., produced the draft of the national TVET policy and strategy as well as the manual on ODFL with inputs from other partner institutions. “The FSD has been twined with TIER by Commonwealth of Learning towards expanding TVET access to both formal and non-formal sectors. “The meeting is, therefore, expected to further review and fine-tune the draft policy and come up with the final policy document on ODFL for the Nigerian TVET sector. “Once the documents have been completed, NBTE will provide copies to all stakeholders to ensure that the policy is ratified,” Kazaure said. Also speaking, Dr. Loveday Ogbedion, Head partnership, M8 Global Know Network Ltd., congratulated NBTE for the milestone and described ODFL policy as a novel achievement for the TVET sector. According to him, the strategy will greatly increase access to technical education and innovative skills needed for socio-economic development.