By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar has commended the signing of memorandum of understanding by Nigeria’s opposition parties, saying that is signals the deliverance of Nigeria from the forces of retrogression, recession, division and blame games. Atiku disclosed this in a statement he personally signed and sent to Sundiata Post on Monday. The statement reads: Today’s signing of a memorandum of understanding amongst the various opposition parties including the PDP, the African Democratic Congress, the Reformed-All Progressive Congress and many other parties is a watershed moment towards the consolidation of democracy, politics of purpose and citizens centered development in Nigeria. I commend Prince Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee of our great party, the Peoples Democratic Party, and our National Executive Committee, for having the foresight to bring together Nigeria’s opposition parties under one big umbrella. I wholeheartedly endorse this exercise and look forward to a spirit of collaboration amongst ourselves as we continue the campaign for the deliverance of Nigeria from the forces of retrogression, recession, division and blame games. It might be a cliche, but it still remains true that unity is strength and that only team work can make the dream work. I refer to the dream of our Founding Fathers for an indivisible united country that is progressive and founded on unity and faith. Much work needs to be done. Sadly, in the last three years, Nigeria has become the world headquarters of extreme poverty. We must thus rub our heads and minds together to ensure that by 2019, extreme poverty is on its way to becoming history even as we usher in extreme peace, progress and prosperity in its place. Once again, I thank all those who made this epoch making event a reality. You have etched your names in the sands of time and Nigeria will be better off because of your actions. God bless Nigeria and may God bless the PDP. Atiku Abubakar, Vice President of Nigeria, 1999-2007  