By Opeyemi Aremu-Gbemiro  Ilawe-Ekiti (Ekiti State)   –      Mrs Aderonke Olufemi, a corporate communication expert, on Monday said the winner of the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti, Dr Kayode Fayemi, would reposition the state. Olufemi told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ilawe-Ekiti, her country home, that she relocated home to partner with the new government in tackling unemployment and poverty in the state. According to her, Fayemi will take the state to the height of stability and equanimity while creating an environment where everyone, irrespective of creed, race, religion and gender, would live a meaningful life. Olufemi, who is also a philanthropist, promised to empower 200 graduates who want to be employers of labour across the state. “I have been into empowerment for almost eight years now. “In Lagos, I had empowered hundreds of youths, most of whom are indigenes of Ekiti, but resident in Lagos. “Since I relocated home, I have discovered that we have many graduates in the state who are unemployed. “While some want to go back to school, they lack the financial means; all these I have studied well. “It was in line with my study that I recently inaugurated a 40 member-team which will design a form and screen interested people after they would have expressed their areas of interest. “All we need at this moment is to ensure that the right persons that really need the assistance are picked, ‘’ she said. According to her, the youth empowerment programme is aimed at supporting the administration of the governor-elect who will be inaugurated on Oct. 16 She congratulated Fayemi on his victory, saying it reaffirmed the affection and confidence that the people of Ekiti have in him. “The Ekiti people believe that his quest for excellence and his antecedents which were convincing ingredients at the poll would change the uncertain future the previous government had enmeshed the citizens in. “His victory represents the true values of the Ekiti people. “ It will restore the dignity and values of our people and turn the state from its dangerous degree of despair and depression to appreciable spontaneous bearing of hope for a greater future,” she said. Olufemi expressed optimism that the governor-elect would restore the state to its status as the land of ‘honour and integrity, saying “we cannot, but hold firm to this through our support and mobilisation.’’