By Chukwuwemeka Opara  Abakaliki   –     The Ebonyi Government has assured traders and other citizens who procured shops at the Margaret Umahi International Market, Abakaliki of permanent ownership of the shops. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the multi-billion Naira market complex situated on the Trans-Saharan Enugu-Abakaliki-Cross River-Cameroon highway was constructed by the preceding administration but was not completed before leaving office. The incumbent administration of Gov. David Umahi, condemned the standard of work at the complex and embarked on the renovation of some structures while reconstructing others. Dr Kenneth Ugbala, Chairman of the State Executive Council (EXCO) Committee on the market, told newsmen during the allotting of shops that renovation and reconstruction had attained 80 per cent completion. Ugbala, who is the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Internal Security to the governor, noted that the allotment had to commence to implement the government’s decision to relocate traders in major markets in Abakaliki to the place by Oct. 1, 2018. “We therefore, commend potential shop owners at the market for obeying the government’s directive to purchase the shops. “They are assured that the shops will be allotted to them permanently on purchase as they have the luxury of making 50 per cent payment to complete the balance in two years. “Payment will be on the ratio of 30: 20; they can first pay 30 per cent and 20 per cent later, all within the stipulated two years,” he said. The committee chairman said that on making the 50 per cent payment, the allottees would be issued a temporary allocation paper and given the permanent one with the Certificate of Ownership (C of O) after the full payment. “Allottees who complete their payment at once will be issued their permanent allocation papers and C of O as we are doing this to push the people towards their blessing,” he said. He noted that the state EXCO liaised with the various market authorities and arrived at prices it felt were affordable in spite of complaints of high cost. “Shops downstairs cost N3.2 million and upstairs, N3 million, shops at the bungalows: N2.5m, while single smaller shops cost N1.3 million. “Traders at major markets in the town should hasten purchasing the shops because no allotment will be reserved for late allottees no matter their status in the society. “Ebonyi citizens in particular, are advised to heed to the directive to prevent outsiders from procuring the shops because politicians and civil servants among others can procure shops to supplement their earnings. “Facilities such as asphalted-roads, banks, standard toilets, fire-fighting services, police station, clinics, schools, including those for kindergartens and close-circuit cameras among others are provided inside the market,” he said. Mr Peter Nwaogbaga, the governor’s Special Assistant on market development, noted that the debris found within the complex were from the old structures at the market. “It will not take us one week to evacuate the debris and we have fully constructed and channelled drains around the market to prevent flooding,” he said. Chief Daniel Okorie, a businessman, said that he had purchased five shops at the market: three shops for N3.2 million and two shops for N2.5 million. “I made 50 per cent payment for them and will certainly purchase more because I am satisfied with what I saw inside the market. Mrs Virginian Nwofe, a vegetable trader at the Abakpa main market, however, expressed doubt that traders could afford the exorbitant cost of the shops.