By Egbogota Clara Lagos –  Rt. Rev. Akinpelu Johnson of the Anglican Communion on Monday urged Nigerians to use the remaining days left for the ongoing voters’ registration exercise to get their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs). Johnson, the Bishop of the Diocese of Lagos Mainland, made the plea in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. He called on youths of voting age to register and obtain their PVCs to enable them participate actively in choosing good leaders. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on July 6, announced that it might suspend the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) in August. The commission said that it needed to suspend the exercise in good time in order to complete the procedures required for data processing, production and distribution of the PVCs ahead of the 2019 general elections. The cleric said that Nigerians should be regularly sensitised on the need to get their PVCs and participate in the forthcoming 2019 general elections. He urged youths to get involved by offering themselves for elective positions. “Our young people should avail themselves of the opportunities presented by the National Assembly to contest the forthcoming elections and participate in other electoral processes. “We should not be swayed by the various inducements and empty promises we have become so used to,’’ Johnson said. The cleric urged the various agencies of government responsible for education to do more to raise the standard of education in the country. “The prosperity of every country is based on the quality of education it offers its citizens at all level but most importantly at the foundation stage of people’s lives. “If the foundation is not strong, nothing can be built on it. No country or society can flourish without a solid educational system,’’ he said. The cleric commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the achievements recorded in the fight against corruption. Johnson advised the Federal Government to develop more robust actions in tackling corruption at all levels.  (NAN)