By Buki Adewumi  Abuja –   Road User Development Network of Nigeria, an NGO, otherwise known as Traffic Update Family (TUF) has commended the Buhari-led administration on road construction/rehabilitation. Mr John John, the Coordinator of the NGO, made the commendation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Abuja. “The chains of road construction and rehabilitation are worth commending because they have enhanced the movement of goods and agricultural goods from the rural to the urban areas of the country. “By the same token, the social and economic life of the people have improved as more areas, hitherto hidden, have been opened up for improvement,’’ he said. The coordinator expressed delight over the response of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, toward finding lasting solution to Nyanya/Maraba road in the Federal Capital Territory. John, however, said that there was need to expand Nyanya/Maraba road, in view of its importance to transportation sector in the country. He described the road as strategic, adding that it formed one of the major roads to the far north of the country and capable of enhancing movement of the people and boost economic activities. According to John, the NGO, incorporated about three years ago, represents citizen-based initiative aimed at supporting the Federal Government in its quest to ease traffic and mitigate accident. He said TUF had embarked on advocacy and awareness, on the need for road users to adhere to traffic rules and regulations to check accidents, loss of lives and property. According to him, there is a critical need for government to develop a blue print for road users that will serve as a policy to mitigate accident and enhance road management in the country. John also urged the Federal Capital Territory Administration to open up Apo, Karshi road to ease traffic on Maraba/Nyanya axis. He described the experience of motorists on Mararaba/Nyanya road as not palatable, adding that the axis had been prone to gridlock and loss of man hour, especially for the public servants.  (NAN)