By Polycarp Auta  Jos   –   The Plateau House of Assembly Special Committee on Security, has called on security agencies to cooperate with it to find lasting solution to killings in some parts of the state. The Chairman of the committee, Mr Yusuf Gagdi, made the call on Monday when he led members of the committee on a courtesy visit to the Police Command in Jos. The News Agency of (NAN) reports that the Assembly on June 26, constituted a seven-man special committee to unravel the remote and immediate causes of recent killings in the state. Gagdi said the visit to the various security heads was to seek synergy, support and cooperation in nipping in the bud the killings in the state. He said that the collaboration would also avail the committee some privileged security information that would aid its assignment. “Following the recent happenings in some parts of the state, the House of Assembly resolved and constituted a special committee to look into the matter. “Basically, we are to investigate and establish the cause of the killings, the damages done and to also make recommendations. “We feel we cannot do it alone; we must work in synergy with the security agencies especially in terms of information gathering. “So, primarily, we are here to seek your support, cooperation and assistance in achieving lasting peace on the Plateau, ‘’ Gagdi said. Mr Undie Adie, Commissioner of Police in the state, pledged the command`s support to enable the committee achieve its mandate. He said that the establishment of the committee was timely, saying that “as representatives, the lawmakers understand and interact with the people better’’. “I am in this state to ensure a peaceful coexistence among its inhabitants and I will not rest on my oars to ensure that is done. “So, setting up a special committee to look into the cause of the killings is timely and I want to pledge our support to ensure you succeed,” he said. The committee also visited the Department of State Services, (DSS), Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and the Military Special Task Force – Operation Save Haven, among others.