By Chiazo Ogbolu and Stellamaris Ashinze Lagos –   The National Information Development Agency (NITDA) has said that technology will soon eliminate the middleman if he does not properly ad5opr branding and trademarking. The Head Legal Unit, NITDA, Mr Emmanuel Edet, made the assertion at the 2018 Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NIRA) .ng Media College. The event had the theme: “A World of Opportunities: Tapping These Opportunities in the Domain Name System (DNS) Industry”. Edet spoke on the topic , ”Brand Protection and Trademarking on the Internet”. He described brand as a name, term, design or symbol, adding that trademark was part of intellectual property. “We have to realise that we are no longer living in the traditional age and that technology has taken over so many things. “Doing business online is the future with value, and has the potential to reach so many constituents; so there is need for one to do things right. “Branding and trademarking on the internet comes with reputation, is recognisable, a part of intellectual property and will enrich ones business when properly adopted,” he said. He said that a brand might be registered, and when registered, would become a trademark. He said that trademark must have goodwill and must not be represented. Edet branding and trademarking were both international and vital aspect of intellectual property, adding that trademark distinguished
goods and services. Edet advised cybersquatting, misspelling and identical domain name, concurrent claims and profit grabbing should be properly looked into. He said that onli e presence, registering of domain name, building websites, recognition of social media and development of apps when necessary should be ensured to protect brands. “It is very important for a brand to have an identity through the years and it is very important as well to evolve because time changes fast,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 2018 .ng Media College wss aimed at enhancing journalists’ understanding of the domain name ecosystem. (NAN)