By Aderogba George   Abuja     –      The Institute of Corporate and Public Administrators of Nigeria (ICPAN) has created six zonal offices to develop and promote professional ideals, ethics and code of conduct in the public sector. Dr Vitalis Onah, Director-General of the institute made this known on Sunday in his welcome address at the 2018 National Conference and conferment of professional fellowship on some members in Abuja. He said the zonal offices are: South-South in Delta; South West in Lagos; South East in Enugu; North Central in Abuja; North West in Zamfara and for North East in Maiduguri. The Director-General said that each of these regions have a regional co-ordinator and state co-ordinators, working for the progress of the Institute. “This is done to ensure that all Nigerians are carried along for the purpose of creating jobs for the unemployed Nigerians. “This will aslo assist President Muhammadu Buhari led administration in their quest for job creation for the teeming population,” he said. Earlier, Prof. Damian Opata, the National Vice President of the institute said that the institute was conscious of the critical role corporate and public administrators play in the governance of organisations. “ICPAN is committed to the provision of efficient professional, public and corporate administrators in Nigeria. “I therefore want to commend and congratulate those who are been inducted into this institute today,” Opata said. Meanwhile, one of these inductees, Dr Christopher Emefiele, said that the doctoral honour would encurage him to start a new chapter of his life. According to Emefiele, the conferment of the honour on me will encourage others to work harder, as hardwork usually pays. “I urge Nigerians to be determined in the pursuit of the goal of life, determination and hardwork will bring a lot of things to them,” he said. Another member, who was conferred with Fellowship award, Prof. George Odabi said he felt honoured with the conferment. Odabi called on all Nigerians to play their role to make the country great. “Everybody has a role to play to make Nigeria difference and make it a better place. We must make sure we elect competent leaders in the forthcoming elections. “Most Nigerians shy away from politics and that is why the system has been hijacked by incompetent people,’’ he said. Odabi called on Nigerians to pursue education adding that, it is the bedrock for any country to achieve its desired greatness. The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN) reports that seven members of the institute were conferred with doctorate honourss, while nine were conferred with fellowship award.