By Itohan Abara-Laserian  Lagos   –       The Agriculture Trade Group of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) on Tuesday lauded the Federal Government’s move to garner new strategies to solve farmers and herdsmen clashes in the country. The Chairman of the group, Mr Tunji Falade, gave the commendation while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos against the backdrop of President Mohammadu Buhari’s trip to the Netherlands on July 14. Falade said that it was not a bad idea for the president to seek new ways and techniques that would ease the problems of cattle rearing in the country. According to him, it is important to seek change in ways of doing certain things as the country’s population continues to grow. “I see the move as a way of trying new ways to solve a problem. Currently, the issue of attacks between herders and farmers has become recurrent and very sensitive “I do not know of any agriculture forum that is complete without the mention of that issue. I know that the Netherlands is more industrialised than Nigeria. “So, it is not out of place to actually learn some models and strategies as well as techniques on how they have been successful in that aspect of cattle rearing,” Falade, the Chief Executive Officer of Kingsway Quality Foods International Ltd., said. Falade urged Nigerians to be open to change and to adopt the changes that would follow such reforms to bring about productivity in the sector. He said: “However, it is one thing to learn these techniques and another thing to apply and adapt to these changes because many people do not want to move from what they are used to. “Change is important and with the growing population, certain things must change. “I believe nobody is an island or monopoly of knowledge, so it is not a bad idea to bring in new ideas from other parts of the world.” NAN reports that Buhari went in the company of Mr Audu Ogbeh, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and other ministers to discuss with Nigerian business owners based in Netherland to replicate such in Nigeria, especially in agriculture.