By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu –  The Police Command in Enugu State said it recovered 165 arms, 160 assorted calibres of ammunition and 231 cartridges between January and June this year. The Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Mr Mohammed Danmallam, made the disclosure to newsmen in Enugu on Saturday. Danmallam assured that the command would continue to partner with sister security agencies and stakeholders to ensure that ‘‘there is continual safety, security and peace in the state. ‘‘The command recovered a total number of 10 Ak47 rifles; 33 pump-action guns and 56 locally-made pistol single barrel guns. ‘‘Others are 36 locally-made pistol double barrel guns; 12 locally-made cut to size short guns; three locally-made revolver short guns and 17 single barrel long guns. ‘‘Thus, thereby, bringing the total number of arms recovered within the past six months to 165,’’ he said. The commissioner, who disclosed that 1, 008 cases were reported, said 1, 874 persons were arrested and 1, 680 were promptly arraigned in court. ‘‘A total of 356 persons were convicted while another 714 persons are awaiting trial just as a total of N20,063,550 was recovered,’’ he said. On sports, Danmallam said the command had made waves in sports development during the period under review. He noted that the command’s football team, Crime Busters FC, recently defeated Rangers International FC to emerge champions of the 2018 Enugu Football Association Federation Cup Competition. ‘‘By the victory of the Crime Busters FC, otherwise known as the Police Machine team, a jinx of over 38 years rule and dominance of Rangers International FC in the state was broken. ‘‘By this, the police team will be representing the state at the national level of the Federation Cup, also known as the National AITEO Cup, while Rangers International FC will be coming up as runners up,’’ he said. Danmallam thanked the government and people of the state as well as sister security agencies, the media, clergy, traditional rulers and other stakeholders for their support. The police boss said that the command would not rest on its oars and would remain pro-active for a more improved safety and security in the state.  (NAN)