By Christian Ogbonna  Yenagoa   –     The out-going Bayelsa Commissioner of Police, Mr Don Awunah, said the command trained 30 officers on efficient service delivery as a prerequisite for peace-keeping in the state.
Awunah disclosed this on Monday during a one-day Training Workshop for Divisional Police Officers (DPOs) and Tactical Commanders in Yenagoa.
He said the beneficiaries included 21 DPOs and nine tactical commanders in the state command.
The commissioner said the training entitled: “Empowering DPOs and Tactical Commanders for Effective Police Service Delivery” was to reawaken the officers on the need for improved professionalism.
“Training is central to quality service delivery and very essential component in empowering the police.
“I believe this will go a long way to make them conversant with some modern trend of policing.
“The police work is the work that needs constant training, sacrifice, commitment and dedication and if you don’t train an officer, you are making the job difficult,” he said.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mr Kemasuodei Wodu, the State Commissioner for Justice, pledged to support the police in promoting quality service.
Wodu spoke on a topic: “Criminal Prosecution in Bayelsa: Director of Public Prosecution and Special Prosecutor; Roles and Responsibilities.”
He said the state judiciary was working effectively to ensure that laws guiding criminal prosecution were strictly followed.
The commissioner also urged them to be more focused and dedicated in order to achieve free crime society.
One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Rita Abbey, DPO, Ekeki Division, Yenagoa Local Government Area, commended the out-going CP on his efforts at ensuring that personnel in the state acquired needful skills.
Abbey said the training was a wakeup call to reactivate officer’s mind and spirit on the old and new trends in service.
“The training has refreshed our memory on what we know and mixed with the new ones in order to strategise and explore the perimeter at enhancing service delivery,” she said.
The Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO) of the command, DSP Asinim Butswat, who is also the Chairman, Organising Committee, said the workshop was a welcome development for optimal performance in the service.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Awunah has been posted to the Force Headquarters, Abuja, as Officer-in-charge of Border Patrol.
He is yet to handover to the new Commissioner, Mr Ahmad Abdullrahaman.