By Isaac Aregbesola  Abuja   –     Seven out of the 12 Nigerian students detained on allegations of cybercrime have been released in Benin Republic, according to a statement from government official.
Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa , the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora disclosed this in a statement signed by her media aide, Abdur-Rahman Balogun in Abuja on Sunday.
Dabiri-Erewa said that the Nigerian Ambassador in Benin Republic, Amb. Kayode Oguntuase made the release known in a brief sent to her.
She said a petition written by Ms Joke Kujenya from Katsina State UNICEF, had alleged that over 50 Nigerian students were arrested in Benin Republic.
She explained that only 12 were arrested by the police without the knowledge of the Embassy in Benin Republic.
She said the Consular officer in that country, after series of negotiation and entreaties, was able to secure the release of seven students from the police.
”The detainees were released from Aglaganda Police Station on July 5 and efforts are on to secure the release of the remaining five.
”The Ambassador listed the names of the arrested Nigerian students as Mathew Langgapp, Bayo Oyenuga, Tari Bori and Samuel Akinwande.
”Others are Dunchi Daniel Dennis, Steven Porobunu, Chuckwudi Ezeungim Valentine, Peter Ochani, David Nicholas Esu, Emmanuel Chukwuneke, Timi Ogunleye and Jacob Oluwatobi,” she said.
According to her, Oguntuase in his brief said Aglagandan Commissioner of Police, Mr Gaston , claimed that the students were placed on surveillance and they were allegedly caught perpetrating cybercrime.
She said that the ambassador had scheduled a meeting with the Porto Novo Tribunal Prosecutor to address the problems of indiscriminate arrest of Nigerians for alleged crimes in the country and called for a fair trial for those arrested.
Dabiri-Erewa called on Nigerians in the Diaspora to avoid crime and criminality, while assuring of prompt intervention of the administration on matters involving Nigerians anywhere in the world.
She implored all Nigerians to be law abiding in their respective abode and shun any act capable of tarnishing the good image of Nigeria.