By Igbaugba Ehigimetor Benin –   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on Tuesday in Benin commended security agencies over their role in the recently concluded Governorship Elections in Ekiti State. Its National Commissioner and chairman. Legal Services Committee, Mrs May Agbamuche-Mbu gave the commendation at the side line of training for legal officers of the commission, organised by European Union Centre for Electoral Support (ECES). Agbamuche-Mbu, said the security deployed to the state for the poll were very professional in their duties. “I was quite impressed with the conduct of the security personnel. They handled all matter professionally and were also very quick at responding to several issues brought before them during the conduct of the poll,” she said. On the issue of vote buying, Agbamuche-Mbu who said she was disturbed about it, however said that the politicians in Ekiti developed several clever means to buy votes in last Saturday’s governorship elections. She said the commission is taking the issue of vote buying very serious. According to her, the electoral body was already looking at ways to curbing vote buying during elections. She, however stressed that adequate enlightenment and education of the electorate should be carried out to make them understand the need to make their vote counts and not about money. Speaking ahead of the Osun governorship polls, she said it would be smooth because ‘Osun electorate are more sophisticated. According to her, “INEC is taking issue of vote buying very seriously. I am just coming as part of the Supervising National Commissioner for Ekiti and these things occur. “We are having another conference on electoral offences. Vote buying is another electoral offence and we are looking at ways to curb it. Politicians keep trying their best. “Politicians were clever in Ekiti. They have ingenious ways to sort themselves out. We will go back and review it and see how we can stop vote buying with the best of our ability. “Security agencies were not involved in votes buying in the two local governments I supervised. “We have to continue to enlighten and educate our electorate. We have to educate our people for them to realise that their votes count and not all about money.”  (NAN)