By Maureen Ojinaka Enugu –  The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has donated a vehicle to the newly inaugurated Epidemiology unit of Enugu State Public Health Emergency Operations Centre to boost disease surveillance activities.
The National Director of NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, presented the vehicle after at the inauguration of the epidemiology unit on Friday in Enugu.
Ihekweazu said that the purpose of donating the vehicle to the unit was for investigation and surveillance exercise in all parts of the state. He promised that a team from the NCDC would work with the unit for two weeks so as to explain how to use equipment for the unit effectively.
He added that the training would help the unit to be on the same page with international standard which in turn would bring success in the state.
The director, however, urged partners such as World Health Organisation (WHO) and other international groups to always collaborate with the unit for efficient healthcare delivery in the state.
Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of the Enugu State, represented by his Senior Personal Assistant, Dr Martins Oke, noted the immense support received from the NCDC toward improving preventive healthcare.
While promising to use the vehicle judiciously, he advised officers of the unit to carry out their duties to the success of the project.
The State Commissioner for Health, Dr Fintan Ekochin, also appreciated NCDC for donating the vehicle for smooth operation of investigation and surveillance in all areas in the state.
Ekochin said his major concern was to protect everyone in the state from all manner of disease, adding that his purpose of creating the State Public Health Emergency Operations Centre was to keep public safe from diseases.
The WHO Coordinator in the state, Dr Ada Erinne, appreciated the state for establishing the unit.
Erinne promised to work with the state unit together with her colleagues to bring more success in the health sector.
Dr Ifeanyi Agujiobi, the Permanent Secretary, the state Ministry of Health, also pledged to ensure that the vehicle would not be used abused.
“I will make sure the vehicle is use for the services of surveillance and investigation on epidemiology cases in the state,’’ he said. (NAN)