By Oluwabukola Akanni Ibadan –  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says Ibadan North Local Government Area has the highest number of unclaimed Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) in Oyo State. The state’s Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr Mutiu Agboke, made this known on Monday during one-day sensitisation programme the commission held for the state’s lawmakers. Agboke said that of the 227,433 registered voters in the council area, 73,602 voters’ cards remained unclaimed. He said the sensitisation programme became imperative in order to encourage the lawmakers to sensitise their constituencies on the need to claim their PVCs. Agboke said that PVC remained the only tool for voting credible candidates in the 2019 elections in the state. “Henceforth in Nigeria, like the forthcoming 2019 elections, PVCs will be very powerful. “It is so powerful that if not well handled, the holder will be messed up on election day. “There are so many components in the card that one cannot afford to toy with. It has an antenna and other components. One cannot afford to put it in one’s back pocket. “It is the civic responsibility of every Nigerian of voting age to have it. It is an instrument to tongue lash any politician and make the politician do the needful. “If you don’t have it or if you have it and sell it, or you collect money to exercise your franchise, you have ridiculed your integrity. “You have also ridiculed the process, ridiculed the power of PVC and we are against it. “INEC is saying no PVC, no voting. Our state Houses of Assembly are powerful stakeholders,” he said. In his remarks, the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Mr Olagunju Ojo, commended the commission for the success recorded at the Ekiti gubernatorial election. He said all eyes were on the Ekiti and uncertainty had filled the air. “But thanks to the adequate preparation and proactive strategies put in place for the election proper by INEC, all went well and the candidate most preferred by the people emerged,” he said. The Speaker assured the commission of its cooperation toward the successful conduct of elections in the state. (NAN)