By Jacinta Nwachukwu Gwagwalada (FCT) –   Mr Kennedy Ozoemena, Deputy Director, Mentoring, Secondary Education Board, FCT, has advised parents to be learning models for their children to help them take charge of their careers in education. Ozoemena gave the advice during the graduation and prize-giving of King’s Kids International School, Gwagwalada, on Saturday. In his speech, he said “the key to raise a well rounded child is to establish a solid support system at home’’. According to him, this will help the child grows up satisfied with his or her achievement and ambitions. “The goal as a parent is to help your child feel competent and confidence as well as help the child develop a sense of passion and purpose. “Parents are their children first teachers. It is from parents that children learn about their culture, values and language. “Parents play a very valuable role in their children’s education in and out of the classroom. “Therefore, parents need to take up the challenge and provide their children the tools needed for them to be successful in school and life,’’ he said. He also said that parental encouragement and support for learning activities at home would enhance higher grades and scores, lower crop-out rates, improved behaviour and increased social relationship, among others. “As far as home is concerned, to raise a child who is well balanced, healthy and happy with his or her accomplishments, there are techniques that must be put in place,’’ he observed. According to him, the techniques include encouragement for special skills, applaud and praise efforts, continuous reading and respect for different learning styles. Mr Ahmadu Ameh, the Chairman, Parents Teachers Association of the school, said “education is something that one cannot ignore, so it is right for parents to support their children.’’ He also noted that the government, teachers and parents had the responsibility of ensuring environment conducive for learning for children to be efficient. No fewer than 65 pupils and students graduated in the school.  (NAN)