By Muhammad Suleiman Tola  Yola   –    The UN Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government of Japan have launched the distribution of agricultural inputs and solar lanterns to communities ravaged by insurgency in Adamawa. The information is in a statement made available to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday by Mr Lucky Musonda, the Head of Communications, UNDP Nigeria. Musonda stated that victims of Boko Haram attacks in Loko village of Song Local Government Area of Adamawa were the first set of beneficiaries of the support. He added that “this intervention is part of ongoing efforts by UNDP to support victims of the Boko Haram insurgency in the three most affected states of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe. “At the height of the insurgency which claimed many lives and caused billions of dollars in damage to property and key infrastructure, thousands were displaced across the region, some into neighbouring countries. “The return of peace to previously captured communities and declaration by respective states of their safety has facilitated voluntary return of populations to their places of origin – most of them still in need of basic infrastructure and sources of livelihoods for the families to survive.” According to him, UNDP is implementing a number of interventions in the North East through close collaboration with respective state governments and funding support from partners, including the Government of Japan. “In 2018, Japan is providing 2.5 million dollars to facilitate implementation of initiatives to support 2,200 farmers and 500 small businesses. “The investment will also facilitate the rehabilitation of five community infrastructure and an estimated 850 locals will be provided with emergency employment opportunities,’’ Musonda said. The spokesman explained that the agricultural inputs, such as sprayers, fertiliser and farming tools, would be distributed to 9,000 households across the North-East region for use during this year’s farming season. He, however, said that priority would be given to female-headed households. The UNDP Deputy Country Director for Operations, Betty Wabunoha, reaffirmed UNDP’s commitment to support rebuilding efforts and livelihoods to stimulate early recovery and lay a solid foundation for development to take place again in the region. Betty said “allow me to extend UNDP’s appreciation to the Government of Japan and Panasonic Corporation for the partnership and support in helping conflict affected communities in Nigeria.” The Ambassador of Japan to Nigeria, Yutaka Kikuta, said that the North-East was an economically promising region but devastated by insurgency and pledged that the government of Japan would assist
to ensure that interventions in the region helped to stabilise affected communities. He added that “the joint-work of Japan’s public and private initiative will bring light, a brighter future to your lives in this region.” He reassured that the Government of Japan would continue to support Nigeria’s efforts aimed at restoring stability and livelihoods for the communities in the North East region. Mr Haruna Furo, the Permanent Secretary, Adamawa Emergency Management Agency, thanked
UNDP, the Government of Japan and Panasonic Corporation for the support. Solar lanterns donated by Panasonic, a Japanese company, were also distributed during the ceremony. The ceremony was attended by Loko community members and representatives of the Adamawa Government.