By Mustapha Sumaila Abuja –  The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has cautioned the general public on the usage of Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR).
The AMR is regarded as the ability of Pathogenic Microorganism to resist the effect of anti-microbial agents when used to treat internal or external infection.
The incidence of AMR leads to treatment failure or infections that cannot be easily treated could lead to death and economic loss.
The Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof. Moji Adeyeye, who gave the warning in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, said AMR had become a global concern to both human and animal.
Adeyeye said that this was a real problem in Nigeria because people were fond of not finishing antibiotic medication or buy only what could be afforded.
“In a local hospital in Nigeria, it was reported that many neonates or new-born acquire AMR from the mothers during childbirth.
“The child’s infection ended up not responding to treatment with the usual antibiotics.
“Many children have died as a result. This is not unique to the hospital,’’ she explained.
Adeyeye said that she had directed the 14 directorates of NAFDAC to interact more with the Nigerian public through awareness and education on food or drug-related public health issues.
“On this note NAFDAC wishes to draw the attention of the general public to Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR), a subject that has become a global concern to both human and animal,’’ she said.
According to her, one of the causes is by using antimicrobial agents when not needed and this can make the pathogenic microorganism develop resistance.
She said that others were proliferation and use of fake, adulterated, and substandard antimicrobial agents that would result in exposure of pathogenic microorganism to sub-clinical or no dosage of antimicrobial agents.
She added that misuse resulting from overuse and under-use of antimicrobial agents were implicated in the increasing trend of resistant pathogens in both human and animal populations.  (NAN)