By Chibuike Nwabuko  Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Labour Party has congratulated the governor-elect of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi on his return as the governor of the state after a keenly contested election. The National Chairman of the party Dr. Mike Omotosho  who also commended the administration of Governor Ayodele Fayose for overseeing a successful election in the state, congratulated Ekiti people for their peaceful conduct.  Mike Omotosho in a statement he personally signed reads:  The Labour Party has congratulated the government and people of Ekiti State for the peaceful and successful conduct of the recent gubernatorial elections in the state.  Speaking via a formal Press release signed by its National Chairman, Dr. Mike Omotosho, the party congratulated Dr. Fayemi on his return as the governor of the state after a keenly contested election. Further congratulatory messages were also extended to the administration of Governor Ayodele Fayose, who according to Dr. Omotosho “Should be commended for overseeing a peaceful and successful election in the state.  “The Labour Party wishes to congratulate the government and people of Ekiti for the successful conclusion of the gubernatorial elections. We also want to congratulate every actor in the political process that delivered a peaceful transition, culminating in the election of Dr. John Kayode Fayemi.  Elections in Nigeria should be devoid of violence, civil disobedience and breakdown of law and order. The recently concluded elections in Ekiti, although tense and closely fought generally reflected the wishes of the people of Ekiti, and we are thankful that it has now ended on a positive note.  We congratulate the winner and urge him to work with all stakeholders to deliver the dividends of good governance to the people of Ekiti. We ask him in particular to remember his promises to the workers, millions of whom have been shortchanged of their portion in Nigerian dream over the recent past.  We also encourage him to focus on programmes and policies that tackles poverty. He must be intentional about providing infrastructure for the rural dwellers to reduce rural urban migration” We also congratulate Governor Fayose and his party for helping to deepen our democracy through their positive and relentless participation in the electoral process. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), International observers, civil society, members of the media and the electorates are also deserving of recognition as they all contributed towards fulfilling their constitutional roles during the elections. For democracy to continue to thrive in Nigeria, all hands must be on deck to deliver inclusive participation, which is an undoubted requirement for the maturation of our democracy. On ouur path, the Labour party will continue to liaise with stakeholders all around the country, particularly with Labour and other relevant group to chart an agenda that delivers incremental returns for the Nigerian worker across the country and in Ekiti in particular.
We urge the media to remain gallant in their patriotic role. We also charge the electorate in particularly to remain assertive, holding all political actors accountable as the 2019 electoral calendar kicks off in earnest. As a party, we will not relent in deepening our internal democratic structures to deliver competitive candidates for elective positions as we seek to be the party of choice wherever our name appears on the ballot. Finally, we pray that the peaceful and successful experience in Ekiti will be a positive omen for 2019 general elections across the country as we usher in another chapter in our nation’s history. Long Live Labour Party! Long Live Ekiti State! Long Live the Federal Republic of Nigeria! Signed: Mike Omotosho National Chairman Labour Party.