By Angela Atabo Abuja –  The Youth wing of the National Rescue Movement (NRM), a political party, on Monday advised Nigerians especially youths, not to sell the destiny of the nation by voting for money. Mr Gabriel Ashibi, the NRM National Youth Leader, NRM made the call at the party’s launch of its `Not-Too-Poor-To-Run’ campaign to encourage youths to seek elective positions in the 2019 general elections. Ashibi said that vote buying was becoming a danger which, if not curbed, could recede the country’s development. According to him, anyone who is willing to buy his way into any electoral office does not have the good of the people at heart but rather wants to serve his own interest. “Money politics is the fundamental problem with Nigeria’s leadership; the mentality that if you must conduct election, you must spray money is what is killing us. “That is why when people eventually get there, they will start stealing to recover their money; my appeal is don’t sell your votes; look for integrity. “Always vote people you can question or trust to help develop Nigeria. “For us in NRM, we are not desperate to rule Nigeria, we are desperate to change Nigeria and we believe that a new Nigeria is imminent and possible.’’ Ashibi urged youths to leverage on the “Not-Too-Young-To-Run” law to aspire for elective positions. Some of the party’s presidential aspirants who spoke at the event, encouraged youths to step out and take the destiny of the nation into their hands by vying for positions to change the political narrative. Mr Auwal Aliyu, one of the aspirants, said that it was time for the youths to stand up and take their place so as to retire the old men. Aliyu said youths had the strength and capacity to develop the country, adding that with support from parties like NRM, youths would contest and win. He said that 2019 would be the year of the youths and they would win elections and transform the nation in all spheres. He urged youths to have passion for the development of the nation and to join hands to lead a rescue team as 2019 approached. Mr Gibson Biko, another presidential aspirant, said Nigeria’s politics was not in favour of the common man, adding that only the elite enjoyed the dividends of leadership. Biko said that with support from NRM, he would contest for president so as to contribute his quota to change four major spheres of education, agriculture, security and employment. He said that when youths were engaged they would be better equipped to run for any position. He said that there was also the need for the nation to have a secure border so as to curb insecurity and external threats from invaders. He said that God had blessed Nigeria as a wealthy nation, adding that Nigerians only needed vote in credible leaders who would unlock this wealth the benefit of all.  (NAN)