By Funmilola Gboteku/Chiazo Ogbolu Lagos –  The Nigeria Postal Services (NIPOST) is to create additional 250,000 jobs by 2020, an official said on Monday in Lagos. The NIPOST Director of Information and Communication Technology (ICT), Mr Thomas Gaga, made the disclosure at the official launch of the Nigeria ICT Roadmap 2017-2020. The occasion featured a sensitisation workshop on the roadmap. The workshop had the theme: “The Role of the Private Sector in the Implementation of Nigeria ICT Roadmap”. Gaga said that the jobs would be created through the implementing of the roadmap. According to him, implementation of the roadmap would enable NIPOST to create e-stamps, engage in e- commerce and generate more revenue. Gaga also said that the implementation would strengthen NIPOST’s presence nationwide. He said that NIPOST had property nationwide and desired to collaborate with the private to turn the property around. The official said that NIPOST also planned to partner with the private sector in e-commerce activities to boost performance. “We are also looking at financial inclusion; we want to collaborate with the financial sector to provide services for the underserved and rural areas. “NIPOST will also like to partner with banks on address verification system, so that we can have the authentic address of citizens,” he said. Mr Augustine Odo, Deputy Director, Corporate Planning, Strategy and Risk Management, Nigeria Communications Commission, said that the roadmap would enable both public and private sectors to prosper. He said that the ICT roadmap would play vital roles in the collaboration of both private and public sectors which would boost the Nigerian economy. Odo said that the roadmap would serve as a communication tool and a high level document that would help to articulate strategic thinking to achieve goals. “ICT plays significant roles in all sectors; for instance even in the agriculture sector, technology is needed to boost production. “The role of ICT in the educational sector also cannot be overruled; we are in a digital world where students make use of computers and internet to further educate themselves,” he said. Odo said that collaboration with the private sector would unveil investment opportunities with the licensing of infrastructure companies. He added that such a partnership would enhance diversification in job and wealth creation, and boost national security. (NAN)