By Johnson Eyiangho Mongunu (Borno) –   President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday vowed that those who deliberately instigate violence and crises in parts of the country will be fished out and punished, accordingly. In a key note address at the grand finale of the 2018 Nigerian Army Day Celebration –NADCEL at Mongunu in Borno North, the president identified those responsible for such violence as “disgruntled politicians.’’ Buhari acknowledged that though the nation “”is safe again’’, there were still pockets of challenges. ““Our nation is safe again. Thanks to the efforts of the security agencies. But this does not mean that there are no challenges. “”There are pockets of violence in several states, some, deliberately instigated by disgruntled politicians, who lost all arguments and are desperate to cause mayhem as a way of seeking relevance. “”We shall fish them out and punish them according to the provisions of the law,’’ he said. The president reassured Nigerians that the issue of farmers/herdsmen clashes was being tackled and ““all those found culpable will be brought to justice.’’ “ “I am happy to inform Nigerians that all other forms of security challenge in other parts of the country are being tackled by our security agencies, accordingly,’’ he added. Buhari, therefore, appealed to Nigerians “to always be “tolerant, loving and ready to give peace a chance”. On the Chibok schools girls and Leah Sharibu, still in captivity of the Boko Haram insurgents, the president assured that they would be released. ““I want to use this opportunity to reassure the world, Nigerians and families of the remaining kidnapped Chibok girls and Leah Sharibu, the Dapchi school girl, that this administration will not relent in our efforts to see that they are released.’’ On 2018 NADCE, he said the choice of the venue – Mongunu in Borno, was noteworthy and assured that the negative history which was associated with north east in the past was now gradually becoming a thing of the past. He said that government was aware of the effects of the Boko Haram insurgency on livelihood, economy and security of the region. According to him, in the past three years his administration has worked tirelessly to ensure and preserve the dignity and sanctity of live. The president commended the service chiefs and heads of other security organisations for their roles in protecting the country and its people. In a remark, Gov. Kashim Shettima of Borno noted that with the degradation of the terrorists, the state and region had moved from pessimism to optimism. “”We have crossed the rubicund in the counter insurgency operations; we are coming to the end. We are on the path of peace,’’ Shettima said. The Chief of Defence Staff – CDS, Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin said that the 2018 Army Day celebration had clearly brought to the fore the combat efficiency of the army. Olonisakin also said that it had demonstrated the army’s ability to facilitate humanitarian and socio-economic activities necessary for reconstruction and rehabilitation of the areas affected by the insurgency. The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, earlier in a welcome address, said that now that the terrorists had been degraded, it was time for the internally displaced persons to return to their ancestral home. Buratai promised that the military would consolidate on the successes so far recorded in the fight against the Boko Haram terrorists group.  (NAN)