By Remi Koleoso Ado-Ekiti –  The Deputy Governor-Elect of Ekiti, Bisi Egbeyemi, says the incoming government is set to fully implement its blueprint to cater for every sector in the state. Speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ado-Ekiti on Monday, Egbeyemi said that the blueprint would be implemented to make life more meaningful for the people of the state. He gave an assurance that the people would not regret their decision in electing Dr Kayode Fayemi as the governor of the state. According to him, the salaries owed to workers by Gov. Ayo Fayose would be a top priority of the incoming administration. He also said the administration would be people-friendly, adding that youth and women empowerment, as well as a stipend for the aged, would be prioritised. Egbeyemi, however, described the employment forms released by the Fayose administration before the governorship poll in the state as fraudulent, warning prospective jobs seekers to be wary. NAN reports that the administration, a month to the July 14 governorship election, rolled out forms for the recruitment of 2,000 applicants. The tenure of the current administration would end on Oct. 16. But Egbeyemi described the purported recruitment as a scam to deceive the electorate during the poll. “How can a governor who had few weeks left instruct unemployed youths in the state to submit their curriculum vitae for jobs that he promised to create for them. “Over 10,000 youths in the state collected the forms for the jobs, but unfortunately, up till now, he has not employed one single youth in the state. “Here is somebody who sacked all those who were employed by the Fayemi-led administration and now wants to employ 2,000 workers. “Workers and the youths should know that he is only deceiving them, but he has forgotten that the people and an average Ekiti worker is more educated and enlightened than he is,” he said. Egbeyemi, a former Chairman of Ado-Ekiti Local Government Area, promised that the incoming government would employ those sacked by the present government when it assumed office.  (NAN)