By Franca Ofili Abuja –   Gov. Ibrahim Dankwmbo of Gombe has called on Nigerians, especially the leaders to ensure that they carryout programmes that will help the country achieve its economic diversification efforts. Dankwambo made the call in Abuja on Tuesday, at the “Blueprint Impact Series and Awards’’ with the theme; “Tolerance, Unity and Security: Building a Legacy for national Development’’. The governor, who spoke on behalf of the awardees, challenged Nigerians to cultivate the habit of good work for the upliftment of the country. Alh. Mohammed Idris, the Chief Executive Officer, Blueprint Newspapers Ltd., said that it was imperative that the media recognised its role, not just in reporting but in objective criticism and celebration of achievements. Idris said that the media was not innocent by-standers in the grand scheme of nation building, adding “they are part of the labour, mortar and bricks. “When we criticise, it must be based on our core belief that the courses of actions are not aligned with the public interest. “A flip side of this is our responsibility to also celebrate achievements and successes,’’ he said. According to him, the theme will help Nigeria forge solutions to internalise the values of tolerance, champion unity and attain lasting security of lives and property. “The Award is in line with its corporate objectives of promoting truth, justice and advocating for sustainable development policies. “We also recognise outstanding individuals across the public, private and non-profit sectors that have continued to make contributions that significantly enhance the quality of life of people and ordinary Nigerians, as well as demonstrate commitment to transforming their environments,’’ he said. Alh. Ismaila Funtua, Patron, Newspapers Proprietors Association of Nigeria, said it was imperative that the present generation of leaders pay close attention to the theme of the programme as it was central to the country’s success. “We must ensure that our cultural, religious and ethnic alliances remain strong by recognising the values that each and every one of us bring to the table,’’ Funtua said. He said the awards was a recognition of leadership, integrity, innovation, inclusiveness and tolerance in individuals that had utilised their intellectual capacities, leadership positions and resources network to make meaningful contributions in the lives of Nigerians. In his remarks, Rev. Joseph Hayab, a member of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) called on the leaders to show tolerance and ensure the security of lives and property. Hayab also advised Nigerian leaders to live up-to expectation in order to build a better Nigeria. He frowned at the use of security personnel to provide security for individuals, rather than protection of Nigerians which they were employed to do. “The issue of sending policemen to guide individuals rather than allowing them do their primary assignment should not be acceptable in the country,’’ Hayab said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that 16 other dignitaries were recipients of different categories of awards. They include Mr Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transport, former governor of Kogi, Idris Wada, and Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele. Others are the Director-General of Industrial Training Fund (ITF), Mr Joseph Ari, Mr Abdullahi Muhammad, Chairman, National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), Governors of Yobe, Alh. Ibrahim Gaidam, and Katsina State, Alh. Aminu Masari.  (NAN)