By Augusta Uchediunor  Lagos –  The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) announced on Thursday said that up to 215 people were killed in accidents on the Lagos-Ogun road corridor between January and June this year. Mr John Meheux, the Zonal Commanding Officer in- Charge of Ogun and Lagos State Commands made the announcement in Lagos. He was speaking at a sensitisation rally at the Ojota Park in Lagos. According to him, the total number of road crashes recorded within the period stand at 434 with 117 involving loss of lives. He said that 237 of the accidents were classified as serious with 1,363 people sustaining injuries. “The total number of people involved in the accidents were 3,696. The FRSC chief said that the development compelled the commission to embark on rigorous sensitisations and enlightenment of commercial bus drivers to caution them on the danger of drunk and reckless driving. Meheux described the rainy season as a special period that was characterised by flooding, slippery road surfaces, poor visibility and fallen trees that could result to crashes. He advised commercial bus drivers to always go for medical checkups before embarking on long trips. Mr Hyginus Omeja, the FRSC Lagos State Sector Commander, who gave lecture on the topic, Hazardous Conditions (Rain and Drugged Driving) a Threat to Safety on our Roads, warned on the danger of using hard drugs while driving. Omeje said that drivers must always endeavour to check their wipers, lights, water and tyres before leaving the house at any point in time. “It is very important to be extra-careful when driving during the rain. “The very important thing to do as a driver is to reduce your speed when it is raining, keep longer distance with the vehicle ahead of you and ensure that your wiper is working effectively. “Also, the mistake many drivers do is that some of them get drunk when there is rain hiding under the fact that alcohol is warming their body, the attitude is what causes accidents quickly on the road,” he said. The sector commander appealed to drivers to shun the non-challant attitude of drivers toward traffic rules and regulations and toward maintaining their vehicles. Mr Tajudeen Agbede, the Chairman, National Union of Road Transport Workers, Lagos State Chapter, also advised members of the union to drive cautiously during the rainy season. Agbede, who was represented by his Deputy, Mr Olawale Ajilo, advised drivers to always show patience while driving. The chairman also advised the union members to shun reckless driving, drunk-driving and to obey traffic rules and law enforcement agencies on the roads. (NAN)