By Tukur Muntari Kano –  UNICEF is taking significant steps toward achieving equitable, sustainable and inclusive growth in Northern Nigeria..
UNICEF Nigeria Representative, Mohamed Malick-Fall stated this on Monday in Kano at a high level interactive Social Policy Workshop on strengthening capacity that will ensure sustainability for child targeted programmes in Northern Nigeria. He said this could be achieved by promoting a common understanding on social inclusion and developing a joint approach for designing and implementing strategies to advance the Children’s rights. Malick-Fall said UNICEF this would be achieved through partnership with all the states to provide continued support in the field of social inclusion, social policy, gender and adolescent participation to all. NAN reports that the meeting, organised by UNICEF Nigeria in collaboration with Federal Ministry of Budget and National Planning, was aimed at strengthening states capacity in ensuring sustainability of results for Children via social policy. “We can make a positive change and when Nigeria succeeds, the region and entire continent has the potential to succeed and ensure no child is left behind. “Reversing the current trend in Nigeria requires child centred social policies, budget and laws. Every child has the right to survive, grow, develop and participate, “he said. The UNICEF chief said developing social policies toward providing equitable and comprehensive services to vulnerable children were necessary for exercising those rights “Iam delighted to see representation from the 19 Northern states in this venue committed to taking this critical step,” Malick-Fall said. The country Representative commended Bauchi State Government for appropriating 15.23 per cent of its total 2018 budget toward health, thus meeting the African Union 2001 health financing agreement. Malick-Fall also lauded Sokoto State Government for implementing the cash transfer programme which focused on girl-child education to close gender gaps in public primary school enrolment and attendance in the state. Earlier in his welcome address, Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje represented by the Commissioner for Budget and Planning, Hajiya Aisha Jafar-Yusuf said the state government had initiated various policies and programmes aimed at empowering and improving the socio-economic status of the people. He commended UNICEF and the Federal Government for organizing the meeting and allowing the state to host it.  (NAN)