By Sumaila Ogbaje  Abuja   –       Some Nigerians, especially aviation stakeholders, have commended Federal Government over the Wednesday launch of new national carrier, Nigeria Air. They told a News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent in separate interviews in Abuja on Thursday
that the new national carrier, which would replace the defunct Nigeria Airways, would boost the country’s image in the aviation world when operational. The Minister of State for Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, had on Wednesday, unveiled the airline logo to prospective partners and investors at the ongoing Farnborough International Air Show in UK. Mr Isaac Balami, an Aircraft Pilot and Engineer, said that a national carrier would be the pride of the nation and would compete with international airlines. Balami, former President of National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) said that the new airline, when operational, would create job opportunities to large number of aviation professionals that were not gainfully employed because of the lack of viable flag carrier. According to him, the name Nigeria Air is apt, just like British Airways, Ethiopian Airlines, Egypt Air and so on because it is a brand that will sell. He added that “domestic carriers are doing their best but the required capacity is not there, but with a national carrier that can acquire high capacity aircraft, have a world class catering and hangar, more jobs will be created. “We also have competent engineers, pilots and other professionals that can man a flag carrier in Nigeria. ” Alhaji Shehu Aliyu, an Abuja-based businessman, also welcomed the development, but called for caution in its management. Aliyu said that the defunct Nigerian Airways died due to poor management and advised government to
adopt the Ethiopian model by allowing private investors to run the new airline. He added that “I am happy that we are going to have a national carrier which we can call our own. It is a thing of joy if we can run it the Ethiopian way to generate revenue and to create jobs for our people.” Mr Michael Aduku, a civil servant, said that having a national carrier was not just a necessity but an opportunity to boost the nation’s aviation industry. Aduku said that Nigeria being a giant in aviation in Africa should have a viable airline to maintain its position in the industry, but called for zero or restrained government involvement in the management of the airline. “The national carrier will definitely create thousands of jobs if properly managed and generate revenue for the country,” he added.