By Peter Ejiofor Lagos –  Mr Mauricio Alarcon, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Nestlé Nigeria, has been appointed the 2nd Vice-President of Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA). The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the association announced his appointment in Lagos on Tuesday. “Alarcon has been involved in the direction of the association for the past one year as a member of governing council,’’ a statement by the Corporate Communication and Public Affairs Department of Nestle said. “He will play a key role in the governing council and management committee. “NECA is committed to building a vibrant and sustainable Business Membership Organisation that is responsive to the needs of its members. “It works towards this commitment by providing advice, guidance, training and development programs. “Since its inception, the association has grown to become the voice of business in the promotion of an enabling environment for enterprise competitiveness and growth.’’ It noted that during the AGM, Mr Olusegun Oshinowo, Director-General of NECA said: “Mr Alarcon will no doubt lend his wide ranging industry experience towards enhancing NECA’s role of providing consultation and advisory services as well as promoting the development of the workforce of our members and other organisations. “We are happy to have him on board.’’ It quoted Alarcon as saying: “I am thankful for NECA Board’s vote of confidence in electing me as 2nd Vice President. This is a welcome opportunity to continue to work within the association to meet its objectives which are aligned to our commitment at Nestlé to provide our employees with good working conditions, a safe and healthy work environment.’’ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) Alarcon, an engineer by profession, has over 20 years of industry experience. He started his career in an industrial group and then worked in the banking sector before joining Nestlé in 1999. He had held various sales and marketing roles in Nestlé Mexico before his transfer to the Strategic Business Unit in Switzerland as Marketing Advisor. In 2004, he became the Marketing Lead for Nestlé’s Movenpick Ice Cream brand and in 2007, the Managing Director of the Ice Cream Business unit in Australia. In 2010, he moved to Egypt as Business Executive Manager for Nestlé’s Ice Cream Business in North Africa. Before his appointment as Managing Director and CEO of Nestlé Nigeria in October 2016, Alarcon was the Managing Director of Nestlé Cote d’Ivoire from 2014 and in 2016 became the Managing Director of the Atlantic Cluster comprising Côte d’Ivoire, Sénégal, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Gambia, Mauritania and Cape Verde. Nestlé Nigeria Plc began simple trading operations in Nigeria in 1961 and has today grown into a leading food manufacturing and marketing company. Nestlé Nigeria is the biggest food company in West Africa and in Nigeria employs around 2,400 people and has three world-class factories. Nestlé Nigeria manufactures and markets a range of high quality brands including NESTLE PURE LIFE, GOLDEN MORN, MILO, KITKAT, MAGGI, NESCAFÉ and CERELAC. NAN also reports that NECA is the umbrella organisation of employers in the Organised Private Sector of Nigeria. It was formed in 1957 to provide the forum for the government to consult with private sector employers on socio-economic and labour policy issues. NECA provides a platform for private sector employers to interact with the government, labour, communities and other relevant institutions in and outside Nigeria for the purpose of promoting harmonious business environment that will engender productivity and prosperity for the benefit of all. (NAN)