By Modupe Adeloye  Ibadan   –    An American faith-based school, Bethel American International School (BAIS), Fiditi, Oyo State, has charged its 14 pioneer graduating students to excel in their future endeavours by thinking clearly, reasoning persuasively and becoming world-changers. Pastor Scott Hintermyer, the Chairman, BAIS School Board, said this at the school’s convocation on Sunday. Hintermyer said that it was a great accomplishment to see a dream conceived by a group, six years ago, come into reality. According to him, BAIS was established in 2012 with the objective of providing Christ-centered and classical education. Hintermyer said that the board developed the framework and educational philosophy for the school with a vision of having to stand apart from other schools. “Our vision is to graduate highly educated students who think clearly, listen with discernment, reason persuasively and articulate precisely. “Also they should be capable of evaluating their entire range of experience in the light of the scriptures and do so with eagerness in joyful submission to God,” he said. He urged the graduating students to ensure that they aimed at being the leaders they had demonstrated in school; “knowing that all things are possible through Christ who strengthens them. “You, the pioneers, the adventurous ones, the risk takers, are here to stand as the first graduates of this dream. “It is your responsibility to take that ability to think well and use it to transform the world a little bit at a time,” he said. Also, Mr Wole Aderinkomi, BAIS Executive Director, said the school had in the last six years taken its time to prepare the graduating students for the new world. “We have taught you the values of dedication, hard work, sacrifice, selflessness and prayers. It is now time to use all acquired to manifest and show to the world that a new breed of world changers is here. “Children that will not compromise and defile their garments with the dirt of the world. I have no doubt in my mind that you are all destined for greatness. “I look forward to hearing about your accomplishments, exploits and inventions,” he said. Similarly, Mr Michael Aderinkomi, President, The Good Samaritan Society of America (TGSSA), noted that acquiring knowledge and wisdom are a lifetime process. “As you go, seek God, knowledge and understanding. These are the imperative ingredients for a successful life journey. “As an institution, we will be following your progress. As an individual, we will not stop mentoring and guarding you,” he said. Afokeghene Dokunmu, the outgoing Head Boy and Faith Oyedele, outgoing Head Girl in their graduation speeches, acknowledged the efforts of the school on their zeal to become world changers. Dokunmu said it was a great privilege to be part of the pioneer students of the school which had in the last six years shaped their lives and prepared them for what is to come. Oyedele said their years at BAIS would forever remain indelible in their hearts, as the people and place that prepared them for the adventures ahead. She called on her colleagues to use the broad classical education to communicate with humanity, show compassion and bring collective intelligence to the world.