By Naomi Sharang Abuja –   The Senate has confirmed the appointment of former Inspector-General of Police, Alhaji Musiliu Smith as the Chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC). It also confirmed six others as members of the commission. Confirmation of their appointments followed the consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on Police Affairs, presented by the Chairman, Sen. Abu Ibrahim. Others, whose nominations by President Muhammadu Buhari were approved by the upper legislative chamber, were Justice Clara Ogunbiyi, North-East; Mr Lawal Bawa, North-West; and Muhammad Naja’atu, North-West. The others were Braimaoh Austin, South-South; Rommy Mom, North-Central; and Dr Nkemka Jombo-Ofo, South-East. Presenting the report, Ibrahim said all the nominees, which had earlier been cleared by the security agency, were found to be worthy of their new appointments and therefore recommended them for approval. The President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, while congratulating the new appointees, said the upper legislative chamber fast-tracked the approval because of the competence of nominees. “Let us congratulate the new members of the Police Service Commission and at the same time commend the quality of the candidates that have been nominated and brought forward by Mr President. “It gives us all a lot of hope and encouragement that all our efforts to see that this crucial aspect of our security architecture reform will begin with this process. “We wish all the members the best of luck. They have a lot of expectation from Nigerians and before this nomination that is why we fast-tracked the screening. “A lot of people are expecting that with their experience to support the police in carrying out the necessary reform that is required, particularly in ensuring that we drive a merit-orientated police force and performance-driven, that would motivate all the necessary members to do the right thing to provide us security. “Let us at the same time also ensure that they look into the areas of rewarding performance in being able to compensate those who have worked hard. Meanwhile, President Buhari has requested the Upper Chamber’s approval of Mr Muiz Banire as Chairman, Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) and Bello Tukur as Chairman, Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC). The President, in a letter addressed to the President of the Senate and read by Saraki at plenary, also nominated 12 other commissioners into the FCSC. “In compliance with the provision of section 154(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended, I write to request the confirmation by the Senate, the appointment of the following nominees as Chairman and commissioners in the Federal Civil Service Commission. “They are Moses Musa, Adamawa; Waziri Umaru, Borno; Ahmed Mahmud, Jigawa; Ahmed Sama, Kebbi; Iyabode Yusuf, Ogun; and Shehu Danyaya, Niger. The others are: Fatai Lafaye, Oyo; Michael Chukwuemeka, Anambra; Joe Philip, Rivers; Ibrahim Muhammed, Kaduna, Aminu Saidu, Kogi; and Simon Etim, Akwa-Ibom. “It is my hope that the Distinguished Senate will consider and confirm the nominees in the usual expedite manner.” (NAN)