By Constance Imasuen  Abuja   –    Vikyede Foundation in collaboration with Gilead Medical Unit of Living Faith Church, Lugbe, Abuja, on Sunday offered free medical treatment and screening to some of members of the Church. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some members were screened and diagnosed on various diseases range from malaria, hypertension, sugar level, blood pressure, diabetes and eye screening among others. Founder of Vikyede Foundation, Mr Ehimate Ogieriakhi told NAN that the gesture was to put smiles on the faces of people that love God and could not afford basic healthcare. Ogieriakhi said the foundation was interested in supporting anyone that has any health challenge. “When Jesus Christ came, his mission was doing good all the time, so our main task is for us to do good, that is why we embarked on this project to care for those who are sick in the church. “We have done this in various places; we have done it in some communities in Edo State; we have done it in orphanage and also in churches. “Our choice of Living Faith is as a result of the prophetic agenda of the church which has to do with church growth. “The process of church growth has to do with love and caring for the people not only the new convert but also the old members. “Also, it is not everyone who has health challenge can go to the hospital for diagnosis and treatment,’’ he said. Ogieriakhi said the foundation had also empowered people in the area of skills acquisition and providing them with starter pack. Meanwhile, Dr Davidson Okobieya, Head Medical Team of the church told NAN that patients had been screened, diagnosed and treated for various diseases and eye defects. Okobieya said medical practitioners were on ground to attend to the patients and offer them free treatment and drugs. A beneficiary, Mr Steve Ehimen commended the organisers for the free treatment, adding that it was a welcome development as it has helped some of them who could not afford medical expenses. “We pray the exercise will be continuous one to assist those that are sick,” he said. Mrs Janet Aikuponsi, who was also treated and given free drugs, prayed God to enlarge the coast of the foundation to enable it provide more services to the people, particularly the less privileged.