By Chibuike Nwabuko ABUJA – (Sundiata Post) –  Fear saturated the camp of the All Progressives Congress-led federal government  as different parties and  Political juggernauts converged at Yar’adua centre yesterday and put pen to paper on how to work together to sack President Muhammadu Buhari from Aso Rock come February 2019.  Among the parties was the Dr. Olusegun Obasanjo-inspired African Democratic Congress, ADC, who resolved to produce a single candidate in the 2019 presidential election.  Yesterday’s agreement was witnessed by several political actors who took turns to bemoan the fate of the country in the hands of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. Among the witnesses were former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, and other bigwigs of the PDP.  The occasion also saw the return of the new Peoples Democratic Party, nPDP, to the PDP, following apologies to the former ruling party by the nPDP chairman, Alhaji Kawu Baraje, over their 2013 exit that led to the defeat of the PDP in the 2015 presidential election.  Senator Saraki’s spokesman, Yusuph Olaninoyu, when asked last night if Baraje spoke for him, simply said:  “He (Saraki) is in America, when he returns, he will speak.”  Former Acting National Secretary of the PDP, Senator Ben Obi, in his opening remarks on the occasion, yesterday, said the various parties chose to come together to salvage the nation and put to end all semblance of nepotism and tribalism.  According to him, President Buhari’s administration has left Nigerians more divided than they were.  “We are here to begin a process that will lead to the formation of a government of national unity. We are here to put to an end the nepotism and corruption that the APC government has been known for in the past three years.  “They promised to tackle corruption, revamp the economy and address security challenges and restructure the nation but as soon as they were elected, they denied making such promises.  “We are here to put an end to dictatorial tendencies and this is a war between light and darkness and I can assure you that light would prevail,” said Senator Obi.  Also speaking, R-APC national chairman, Buba Galadima, noted that the MOU will send shivers down the spine of the ruling party, adding that since he led a splinter group out of the ruling party, the R-APC has been receiving messages of solidarity from across the world.  Buhari will lose 2019 election — Galadima For Galadima, President Buhari is fated to lose the 2019 election, adding that if the President knew what awaited him, it would have been better for him not to go into electoral contest at all.  “With what I know, I can tell you that President Buhari will not only lose this election, he will lose his deposits. Let us not forget that the man we will be facing is a military general. We are ready, prepared to take on this fight, despite their intimidations and threats.  “I know him but if I was his adviser, I will tell him not to contest,” Galadima said even as he reminded parties to the alliance that the APC has set aside huge sums of money to buy them over in the months leading to the general polls.”  Representative of the ADC and former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, on his part, described the coalition as “an assignment from God,” even as he urged the parties to be committed to the letters and spirit of the MOU.  He said: “We are committed to restructuring of this nation and we must respect the spirit and letters of this understanding.  “When Nigerians voted in 2015, they thought the APC vehicle will take them to the promised land. But three years after, the APC has failed and failed tragically too.”  Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Minister of Finance, Chief Olu Falae, lamented what he termed the “gross incompetence” of the APC-led government and tasked all parties to the alliance to team up in supporting not only a sole Presidential aspirant but sole governorship candidates, Senatorial candidates as well as House of Representatives candidates across all states of the federation.  “All our votes must go to the Presidential candidate and to the governorship, senatorial and House of Representatives in every state of the federation.  “It is not sufficient to produce the President alone because if we have a President who does not have majority of seats in parliament, there will be challenge as to what the President would be able to do,” he noted.  Parties to the MOU Parties that signed the MOU were the Action Alliance (AA), Alliance for Democracy (AD), Africa Democratic Party (ADC), Action Democratic Party (ADP), All Grand Alliance Party (AGAP), Action Peoples Party (APP), Advanced Congress of Democrats (ACD), Better Nigeria Progressive Party, Democratic Alternative (DA), Democratic Peoples Party (DPC), Grand Democratic Party of Nigeria (GDPN), Green Party of Nigeria (GPN), KOWA Party, Labour Party (LP), Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA), Masses Movement of Nigeria (MMN).  Others included the National Conscience Party (NCP), New Generation Party (NGP), National Unity Party (NUP), Nigeria Intervention Movement (NIM), Peoples Alliance for National Development and Liberty (PANDEL), Peoples Progressive Party (PPP), People for Democratic Change (PDC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Providence People’s Congress (PPC), Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC), Restoration Party of Nigeria (RPN), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), All Grassroots Alliance (AGA), National Interest Party (NIP), Nigeria Democratic Congress Party (NDCP), Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), and Young Democratic Party (YDP) among others.  Baraje, Melaye return One of the highlights of the well attended event was the formal return to the PDP of its former Acting National Chairman, Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje and the lawmaker representing Kogi East, Senator Dino Melaye.  While thanking the PDP for accepting him back in its fold, Baraje said a prodigal son regardless of his sins, would always be received with joy upon repentance from his sins.  “We went astray but we are back now. If a child burns one of his fingers, he quickly retreats the others. I will like to thank you for accepting to take us back,” he said.  Like Baraje, Melaye said he had the option to flow with the crowd but chose to return to PDP to remain politically consistent, saying come 2019, “President Buhari will fail because he is entitled to failure.”  Dignitaries at the event included former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, ex-Senate President, David Mark, the governors of Gombe and Akwa Ibom states, Ibrahim Dankwambo and Udoh Emmanuel respectively. Others were Senator Liyel Imoke, Gbenga Daniel, Ibrahim Mantu, Tom Ikimi, Zainab Maina, Ike Ekweremadu and Chief Bode George  The Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu in his remarks assured that the coming together of various opposition political parties to sign the MoU would rescue Nigeria in 2019 and restore her on the path of democratic freedom, joy, security, and development.  He said the mammoth crowd outside the venue which had gathered to witness the birth of a new Nigeria, showed that Nigerians now see hope again and urged the grand alliance not to disappoint the people.  He said: “For three years, what I see on the faces of Nigerians is frustration and anguish. But for the first time, I tell you that I saw joy, I saw people laughing and smiling for the first time in three years.  “Those our brothers and sisters, and investors, who left Nigeria in the last three years, are also rejoicing with you because by this time next year, they will all be back.  “Those factories that were closed are going to come back alive by this time next year and Nigerians will rejoice.  “The people of the South East whom the programmes and  practices of this government are forcing them to have a rethink on their membership of this country, today will rejoice and be happy that a new country that will be fair to all is coming; a country that they will be proud to be part of and continue to contribute to her development.  He enjoined Nigerians to keep faith with the new movement as they days of their anguish and suffering were numbered. 