By Talatu Maiwada Abuja –  The All Grassroots Alliance (AGA) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to consider the Electoral Reform Committee recommendations submitted to Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami in May. Dr Olukayode Oshiariyo, National Chairman of the party, said in a statement issued in Abuja on Saturday that the implementation of some of the recommendations of the committee would address some challenges in the country’s electoral process. According to him, the committee’s recommendations include how to strengthen the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), participation of independent candidates, the management of political parties and tackling of electoral offences, among others. “It is imperative to implement the recommendations to properly review the laws governing the electoral process. “AGA equally entreats the National Assembly to begin a legislative process to reposition INEC for efficiency and proactive surveillance of political parties’ spending before and during electioneering,’’ he said. Oshiariyo stated that the Constitution and Electoral Reforms Committee was led by former Senate President Ken Nnamani and was inaugurated on Oct. 4, 2016. He added that the committee was also appointed by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Justice Abubakar Malami on Oct. 4, 2016. Oshiariyo recalled that  a 24-man committee was appointed to review the laws governing the electoral process and further make recommendations for reforms, proffering the way forward on the country’s electoral system. He said that Nnamani, in his report, stated that recommendations of the committee would become the executive bill at the National Assembly before been harmonised alongside the Senate and House of Representatives. Oshiariyo also expressed concern about the just concluded governorship election in Ekiti, stating that INEC should performed better in future elections. He alleged that both the All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party, among other political parties, violated the provisions of 2010 electoral law regarding the use of money and materials to induce voting. He recalled that AGA was registered not too long time ago but was rated as 20th on how political parties performed in the just concluded governorship election in Ekiti. According to him, giving consideration to the recommendations of the Constitution and Electoral Reform Committee will address most of the challenges ahead of the 2019 general elections.  (NAN)