By Stephen Adeleye Lokoja –  The Kogi State Government says it has concluded plans to deploy 7, 425 successful beneficiaries of the second batch of N-Power Programme under the Federal Government Social Investment Programme (SIP) across the state.
A statement by the Special Adviser to Gov. Yahaya Bello on Multilateral, Donor Agencies and Special Projects Mr Adoga Ibrahim, in Lokoja on Monday said the beneficiaries would be deployed to all the 21 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state as from Aug. 10.
According to Ibrahim, Kogi SIP office in conjunction with the relevant stakeholders are working tirelessly to ensure the issuance of deployment letters to beneficiaries for prompt resumption at their Places of Primary Assignments (PPA) on or before Aug. 10, 2018.
“Posting, data processing and production of deployment letters have commenced since July 23, which will end on Friday July 27.
“The state partners such as Kogi SUBEB, Kogi Science, Technical Education and Teaching Service Commission (STETSCOM), Kogi ADP, and Kogi Primary Health Care Development are already working hard to meet up with the deadline.
“The state flag-off ceremony will be performed by Gov. Yahaya Bello on Tuesday July 31, at the Government House, Lokoja.
“At the event, the successful beneficiaries from Lokoja and other LGAs will collect their deployment letters to their PPA, and will also receive the necessary orientation regarding the workings of the N-Power Programme,” Ibrahim said.
The focal person noted that the deployment exercise would be performed at the senatorial districts and federal constituencies of the LGAs.
He said the deployment for all LGAs in Kogi Central would take place at Okene on Aug. 2 and 3, while that of Kogi East would hold on Aug. 6 and 7.
He added that the remaining LGAs in Kogi West would have their deployment at Kabba on Aug 8 and 9.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the N-Power Programme is one of the five welfare programmes under the Federal Social Investment Programmes in collaboration with the State Governments, which comprises three sectors: Npower- Teach, N-Pwer-Agro, and N-Power-Health. (NAN)