By Chibuike Nwabuko  Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Former Vice Chancellor of the Federal  University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO), Professor Jude Njoku, has declared his ambition to run for Imo gubernatorial ahead of the 2019  general elections.  Njoku who is gunning to take over from the outgoing Owelle Rochas Okorocha, under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said he is coming with the a restoration agenda for the state. Addressing a huge crowd of party faithfuls at the PDP state Secretariat along Okigwe Road, Owerri, Njoku assured the people of the state that all hope is not lost. Njoku said he will “harness the abundant human and material resources and channel our collective energies to place Imo State among the top flight states in the country”. He assured the people that he is the most qualified and prepared candidate to lead the collective charge to “reposition our dear state through agriculture, infrastructure, social sector, using the instrumentality of a revived civil service and collaborative support of the private sector and local and international development partners”. The former Vice Chancellor of FUTO  declared to a cheering crowd of supporters that Imo State will witness massive agricultural development as Oil Palm production will be revamped to a level that it will be a major income earner for the state and it’s people. According to him emphasis on food production will go beyond roots and rubber crops but will also expand to livestock production, pointing out that “agriculture will be made very attractive and made to encompass the entire value chain; from production to storage, processing, preservation and marketing”.  “I promise to open up Imo State through aggressive construction  of qualitative roads and drainages. Reputable construction firms will be engaged to build roads and bridges across the state. Ring roads will be constructed within and around Owerri, Orlu and Okigwe in order to decongest the major urban centres of the state”, the gubernatorial hopeful further stated. He assured that new satellite towns will be established while local councils will be encouraged to construct and maintain rural roads, stressing that  “Urban water supply will be restored and all water plants that have been moribund over the years revived and made functional once again”. Njoku stated that education will be given a pride of place under his stewardship in the state, adding that apart from prompt payment of salaries and allowances, the institutions must be supported to secure full accreditation for all their academic programmes”. “The state government will partner with the private sector in educational development, particularly in the establishing more quality private universities to increase access to tertiary education for our citizens”, he further promised. On health, Njoku assured that health centers would be provided in each community in the  state while at least two fully functional general hospitals in each of the three senatorial zones of the state. According to him, “Imo State University Teaching Hospital shall be designated  and equipped to be a centre of  excellence in medicine so that  they can also produce quality medical doctors in a timely manner”. The declaration which caused traffic gridlock along the busy Okigwe Road had in attendance all the State Executive Committee members of PDP, other key stakeholders including Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Senator Sam Daddy Anyanwu among other party faithfuls.