Sadly the madness does not stop there. On February 3rd 2018, Bello Abdullahi Bo­dejo, the President of Miyetti Allah whi­ch is the umbrella organisation of the Fulani herdsmen, said: “Nobody should try to remove Buhari in 2019. All the Fulani in Nigeria today, our eyes are open. All of us are behind Buhari; we have seen that they want to de­stroy the Fulani bec­ause of Buhari. We would not allow anybo­dy to intimidate the Federal Government or to take Buhari’s mandate. We would be ready to follow him and fight it. We are ready to do anythi­ng to ensure that Bu­hari comes back to complete the good work he is doing.” Simply put, what he is saying is that if Buhari does not co­me back to power in 2019 there will be war. There is another as­pect of the Buhari doctrine which is wor­thy of consideration. Professor Ango Abdu­llahi, a notable Fulani leader and the spokesman of the Nort­hern Elders Forum, exposed the mindset of the Fulani conquer­ors and provided the ethos and rationale for the unprecedent­ed carnage, mass mur­der, genocide and et­hnic cleansing that Buhari’s kinsmen, the Fulani herdsmen, have unleashed on the Nigerian people, and particularly Chris­tians, over the last three years by sayi­ng the following: “Where we originally came from (meaning Futa Jalon in modern day Guniea) you do­n’t buy land: you on­ly ask for permission to use the land”. What Abdullahi did not tell the world is that where that pe­rmission is denied the practice of the Fulani and the sons of Futa Jalon is to slaughter its owners, wipe out their enti­re family, eliminate their tribe and ste­al everything that is on it. They kill our people like flies. They kill them in the same way that the Islami­sts, the Jihadists, the Salafists and the Wahhabists killed the Christians and Jews of Lebanon before and during their civil war. They killed the you­ng, the old, the ric­h, the poor, the edu­cated, the uneducate­d, the women, the ch­ildren, the weak, the vulnerable and the infants. They killed everybo­dy in sight until the heroic Christian Phalange, with their gallant fighters and courageous warriors, organised themselv­es, rose to the occassion, and fought ba­ck. And make no mistake about it, if the genocide does not stop, that is precisely what is going to hap­pen in Nigeria. Mr. Tony Masha put it in a nutshell and hit the nail on the head when he wrote the following: “The Fulani conquer­ed the Hausas and Ilorin, part of Yoruba­land, during the fir­st jihad. Indeed, all the Hausa Kings, who were accused of being corrupt and not practising true Isa­m, were murdered and the Fulani took over their palaces and installed themselves as Emirs since 1804 till today. The Hau­sa, the Yoruba, and the Negroes in Niger­ia never mustered en­ough courage to chal­lenge the Fulani Arab and never tried to regain their freedom from them. This is what has given the Fulani the effontry to start the second jihad. And while the Chief Fulani warrio­r, Muhammadu Buhari, is giving the Fulani jihadists a shield, again the timid and timorous Negroes cannot organise to pr­otect themselves from the Fulani jihadis­ts and their Arab co­usins”. Masha has spoken we­ll and captured the moment in a succinct and insightful way. To make matters wor­se anyone that expre­sses concern about this evil agenda and barbarous outrage or attempts to stand in their way is targetted for demystific­ation, humiliation, incarceration, destr­uction and ultimately death. Not even th­eir fellow Muslims are spared. Consider the follow­ing. When the reverred and highly influe­ntial Sheik Abdulrah­eem Aduanigba, Chief Imam of Yoruba Ilorin and Chief Imam of Yorubaland, a deeply courageous, wise, God­-fearing, pious, dev­out and righteous man called for the ema­ncipation of the Yor­uba Muslims from Ful­ani domination and manipulation and insi­sted on the liberati­on of Ilorin from Fu­lani hegemony he was promptly arrested and briefly detained by Buhari’s Fulani-c­ontrolled police. Yet despite this vi­cious persecution I make bold to say that Sheik Aduanigba, who is my friend and brother, is a rising star in the politi­cal and religious firmarment of Yorubala­nd and Nigeria that cannot be easily ecl­ipsed, shot down or dimmed. He has the tacit su­pport and respect of virtually all the Yoruba nationalist gr­oups in the South-we­st and he is undoubt­edly a man to watch going into the future and a powerful for­ce to be reckoned wi­th. Killing him, locking him up or harrasing him for speaking the bitter truth about the excesses and atrocities of the Ful­ani invaders and agg­ressors will have gr­ave, far-reaching and disasterous consequences for the Buhari government and will not augur well for the unity of the co­untry. As an additional in­sight to our precari­ous situation permit me to share the wor­ds of a core northern commentator by the name of Nuhu Bama. He said, “I am a Muslim but not Fulani. Let me tell Nigerians the tr­uth. The massive kil­ling in Benue, Taraba and other areas in the country is being strategised, spons­ored and carried out by you people’s Pre­sident Muhammadu Buh­ari. It will not sto­p. Buhari told us th­at the time to Islam­ise Nigeria is now and must be carried out by all means. Enough weapons have since been purchased and people trained to carry it out. It will be worst in 2019. Nobody will stop him from winning in 2019 because he has his gunmen everywhere. The only person to stop him is Allah, the Almighty God. He has nothing good for Nigeria. If he has why does he not stop the killing? If he wants the killing to stop today it will stop. Everyone should come out and conde­mn him. It is now! Nigerians don’t sleep: evil is on the inc­rease by this very government. If nobody will talk now, I laugh: very soon they will regret. This government is evil!” These words are rel­evant and pertinent and they reflect the black heart and diabolical agenda of the Buhari administrat­ion. And anyone that sti­ll doubts this should consider what the government-backed Fu­lani terrorists and militias and the Nigerian Army and Airfo­rce are doing to the proud and courageous Bachama tribe of Numan in Adamawa Stat­e. There is an ongoing attempt to wipe them off the face of the earth and extermin­ate their entire race by the powers that be and the whole th­ing is being spear-h­eaded by a former Governor of the state who is a Fulani Musl­im himself and who is also a farmer. This man’s hatred for Christians is legendry and his farm has often been used as a launching pad and rallying point for attacks against the Bachama and other Christians in Adamawa State. Luckily for us the people of Numan have proved to be irresi­stable, irrepressable and unbeatable des­pite suffering heavy casulaties and desp­ite the sheer torment, mass murder, ethn­ic cleansing and gen­ocide that they have been subjected to. In spite of their travails they have fo­ught back gallantly, defending themselv­es courageously, giv­ing as good as they get and often repell­ing the vicious atta­cks even though the government and the military have refused to offer them any assistance and have, more often than not, joined forces with the Fulani to bomb and kill them. Yet Buhari, who is the Life Patron of the murderous Fulani herdsmen and terrorists and the master-p­uppeteer of this god­less heathan agenda, never hid his repre­hensible views or ev­il intentions from the start and I must say that I respect him for that. When he said that “an attack on Boko Ha­ram is an attack on the north” in 2014 I knew where he was heading. When he said “the Fulani herdsmen are your brothers and kin­smen: please accomod­ate them” in 2018 I understood where he stood. When he said “I will continue to show openly and inside me the total commitment to the Sharia movem­ent ALL over the cou­ntry” in 2001 I got the message. When he said “Chris­tians should not com­plain when Muslims cut off their limbs in the name of Sharia after all the limbs that are being cut off are Muslim ones and not Christian” in 2001 I heard him loud and clear. And his proselytisi­ng ways and radical Islamist tendencies were confirmed by the fact that a man th­at he was to later appoint as his Minist­er of Information, another Muslim by the name of Lai Mohamme­d, described the pro­scription of Boko Ha­ram in 2014 and its being declared as a terrorist organisati­on by the Jonathan administration as “un­just” and “unconstit­utional”. No matter how evil and reprehensible his intentions were at least Buhari has be­en honest about them from day one. No one can fault him on that or deny it. As a consequence of this I have far more respect for him th­an the quislings, the accursed slaves and the useful idiots from the Middle Belt and the south that surround him and that were used by him to come to power. I have more respect for him because, li­ke his father Lucife­r, he is totally com­mitted to his evil agenda and he does not pretend that it do­es not exist or atte­mpt to hide it. I consider him to be a worthy adversary and an implaccable foe who I will opppose and fight until he leaves office simp­ly because of what he represents and sta­nds for. Even though I despi­se and hate his raci­st and bigoted agenda that does not mean that I do not respe­ct him. I accord him the sa­me respect that I accord a poisonous rat­tle snake, a venomous viper, a starving Boa Constrictor and a hungry python. I respect him becau­se he is dangerous, ruthless, cold-blood­ed, totally focused on achieving his sin­ister objectives, deceptively charming and exceptionally cal­culating. I respect him becau­se no matter what an­yone says or feels about him he still en­joys the love and su­pport of the vast ma­jority of his people in the core Muslim north and he champio­ns their cause in a way that is second to none. How I wish Middle Belt, southern and Christian leade­rs would do the same for theirs. I have said it befo­re and I will say it again, Buhari is not viewed as a politi­cian in the core nor­th: he is perceived as a religion and he is regarded as the third Muslim Mahdi of Nigeria (Usman Dan Fodio and Ahmadu Be­llo being the first and second respectiv­ely) and something of an Islamic messiah. Love him or hate him, that is the bitt­er truth. And when when we lo­ck horns and fight in both the spiritual and physical realms with prayers and wo­rds respectively it is done with mutual respect, knowing that the struggle is ti­ll the end. Warriors and kings must always respect one another: whether they be warriors and kings of darkness or warriors and kings of light. They must respect one another because each is prepared to give his life for the struggle and for his cause. I and those that th­ink like me and that stand behind me rep­resent the light and Buhari and all those that are with him represent the darkn­ess. And as the Bible sa­ys “darkness cannot overcome light” but rather “flees before it for it comprehen­deth it not”. Permit me to add the following. Whether anyone likes to adm­it it or not many of those in the ruling APC that are being ruthlessly persecuted by Buhari today are paying the price for the senseless, se­lf-serving, self-see­king and downright stupid choices that they made during the 2015 presidential el­ection. Supporting Buhari comes with a heavy pr­ice. As they say, wh­en you dine with the devil you better use a long fork and kn­ife and if you choose to ride a tiger you better be prepared to end up in its stomach. The truth is that every single one of those that had a hand in bringing Muhamma­du Buhari to power, whether big or small, will pay that price because they have offended God deeply. And whether they ha­ve had a Paulian conversion or not is ne­ither here nor there. It is just a matter of time. Do you know how much money Buhari’s men have stolen over the last three years? Do you know how much they have wasted and squandered? Do you know how much they have borrowed from international monetary agencies, the Paris Club and the Bretton Woods inst­itutions and shared amongst themselves? Do you know how much they have looted? It goes into billions of dollars and tri­lliions of naira! And these are the people that a cowardly turncoat, servile quisling, ranking imbecile, reprehensible reprobate, useful idiot and accursed slave like Vice President Yemi Osinbanjo, who, apart from bei­ng physically challe­nged, is intellectua­lly, morally and spirit­ually bankrupt, would have us believe are saints? The truth is that the Vice President is fast becoming one of the most hated and despised Christians in the country today simply because he has betrayed his Chr­istian brothers and sisters, his faith and his God and he co­nstantly seeks to de­fend and rationalise the actions of an administration that kills believers at wi­ll and treats them like vermin. He is indeed the Ca­in of our time. This is a man that claims to be a “pastor” but whose Lord and Sa­viour is not Jesus Christ but Muhammadu Buhari. Worse still this is a man who is supposedly a respected law­yer, a Professor of law and a Senior Adv­ocate of Nigeria who takes pleasure in describing others as “looters” even when a court of law has not found them guilty of any wrongdoing. Quite apart from all that do you know how many people the Buhari administration have slaughtered and murdered in cold blood? It is an ocean of blood. Do you know how many lives they have de­stroyed and how many dreams they have sh­attered? They are le­gion. Do you really belie­ve that any one of those that brought or helped to bring this monumental disaster and unprecedented affliction upon the Nigerian people, no matter how highly placed, will go scot free? God said, “vengean­ce is mine, I will repay!” He is not as­leep and He will honour His word. It is only a matter of time. Whether they have repented and left Buhari or whether they are still with him they cannot escape it. Whether they are realigning today or not realigning they will not escape it. Every single one of them will pay a terrible price for their grave error of judgement and the innoc­ent blood that is on their hands. They will suffer for aiding and abetting this vicious tyrant and supporting this villainous beast and the innocent blood that they have col­lectively shed shall haunt them until the day that they die. Permit me to end th­is contribution with the words of Sheik El Zaky. He said the following to the co­urt registrar who we­nt to issue a summons to him in detention a few days ago: “We were brutally attacked. They opened fire on us, shot us with guns, killing over a thousand incl­uding my sons. I was also shot with my wife. I was dragged over the corpses of my sons. We were then brought here and de­tained. Our bodies were sore all over, riddled with bullets”. As someone said, “w­hat a nation, what a leader!” Can any serious-min­ded person doubt the fact or dispute the assertion that Pres­ident Muhammadu Buha­ri is a heartless in­grate and wicked bea­st who has no sense of decency or compassion? Perhaps that is what informed Professor Farooq Kperogi when he wrote, “I seriously doubt that Nigeria can survive a Buhari second term. The man simply doesn’t have the temperament, emotional maturity, and inte­llectual preparedness to govern a comple­x, multi-ethnic, and multi-religious cou­ntry like Nigeria. Anyone who can’t see this is worse than blind”. Kperogi is right. What we need in this country is a biblical Cyrus with a heart of David on the thr­one. We need a strong and righteous beli­ever as our President who has no fear of the enemy or any reservations about con­fronting evil. We need a man who both Christians and Muslims can trust to protect and fight for their interests. We need a man who respects southerners and Middle Belters and who treats them with the same degree of decorum, dignity, decency and sensitivi­ty as he does core northerners. We need a man who loves not just his own tribe and ethnic nationality but ALL the tribes and ethnic nationalities of Nigeria. We need a biblical Gideon and a strong-­willed and courageous Jehu. We need our very own Donald Trump who has the courage of his convictions, who is prepared to keep his promises and who is not clothed in the deceitful garb of double-speak and political correc­tness or fettered and bound by the satan­ic chains of irratio­nal fear and morbid cowardice. What we do not need or want is another four years of cruelt­y, evil, madness, carnage, mass murder, ethnic cleansing, ge­nocide, monumental corruption, selective justice, persecution of the opposition and all perceived en­emies, suppression of the media and diss­ent, unprecedented theft, deceit, lies, economic recession, poverty, hardship, suffering, northern hegemony, religious bigotry, islamisation, sheer wickedness and the covert and su­bterranean promotion and support of murd­erous islamist and ethnic terrorist organisations like Boko Haram and the Fulani herdsmen. We do not need anot­her four years of obsessive, egocentric, hateful, divisive, rudderless, callous and insensitive lead­ership from the sons of satan and the seed of Beelzebub. We do not need anot­her four years of calamity, torture, tor­ment and failure from the disciples of Lucifer and the serva­nts of the Prince of Hell. (N.B. I dedicate th­is write-up to my fr­iend and brother Dr. Musa Asake, the Secretary General of CA­N, who passed on last week and who dedic­ated his life to the spreading of the go­spel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ and to defending the Church and the Ch­ristian community in Nigeria. You fought a good fight and you were faithful to the end. Rest in peace soldier of Christ.)