By Chibuike Nwabuko  Abuja (Sundiata Post) –  Senator representing Kogi Central Senatorial district,  Senator Dino Melaye on Thursday took President Muhammadu Bahari to the cleaners over what he described as a derogatory statement against the senate.  Dino who came through order 14 during plenary today asked President Bahari to apologise to the National Assembly for his statement when the delegation of the Bahari campaign organisation led by Comptroller General of Custom, Col.  Hameed Ali (rtd) visited him at the Presidential Villa last week.  He said that Bahari during his address to the delegation said that some of the members of the National Assembly have been there for 10 years but with nothing to show for it.  Stressing that such a derogatory statement abd insult to the National Assembly should not be allowed to go unnoticed.  According to him, Bahari said “he does not know what we are doing at the National Assembly,  that some of us have been gere for 10 years with nothing to shoo for it. For the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to so speak in low tone about the NASS,  I begin to ask myself if Triump can address the congress in the like manner. Ine begins to wonder why we should  summon the Inspector General of Police and DG of parastatals and they will fail to come, Dino said.  He continued:”I feel i should bring it to the notice of the house not just bringing it to the attention of the senate,  the ocassion where he made the statement was during the visit of the bahari campaign organisation.  The senator who informed that his privileges as a senator was abused last week by President Buhari’s demeaning comment also wondered why a public office holder in the capacity of the Comptroller General of Customer, Col.  Hammed Ali would lead a delegation of Bahari campaign organisation in the first place.  Reminding that such action violates the oath of office of the president, Dino called on the senate and indeed National Assembly to take steps to salvage and protect institutions from such actions so that we don’t see Inspector General of Police tomorrow attending the APC national convention in June or the Chief of Army Staff shouting APC slogan tomorrow.  Details Later….  