BY Nse Anthony-Uko
(Sundiata Post) — eTranzact International PLC, Africa’s premier e-payments solution provider, said it will be making significant changes to the company’s management team as Mr. Valentine Obi, managing director of the company will be stepping down and Mr. Niyi Toluwalope will be taking over as the managing director in acting capacity. This is just as the company denied allegations of financial fraud leveled against its management staff, which prompted the financial regulator, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to order its management staff to resign with immediate effect. Until his appointment, Toluwalope was the chief financial officer, a position he has held since 2011. Other executive positions affected by the management changes are two executive directors -Mr. Sullivan Akala and Mr. Ike Eze; chief technology officer – Mr. Richard Omoniyi and head of operations – Mr. Kehinde Segun. A statement by eTranzact said it “is aware of recent Business Day publications about these management changes and wishes to announce that the changes are strictly eTranzact Board’s decision, and would like to advise all its stakeholders that it is working closely with the regulators, and all other relevant stakeholders to resolve any issue related to or arising from the management changes. “In addition, we want to categorically state that there was no fraud in eTranzact International Plc, however a merchant used the company’s interface with a bank to perpetrate fraud. The eTranzact executives resigned honorably because they have the responsibility for governance in the company. Also, there is no truth about PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) or Ernst & Young reviewing the accounts of the Company. eTranzact retains PwC from time to time for various technology related assignments and none has to do with reviewing the Company’s Accounts” the company said. The ISO certifcations are a testament to eTranzact’s focus in adopting and implementing global and best practices to ensure effectiveness, efficiency, confidentiality and integrity in its day to day operations. This marks the beginning of a new journey for the company” the statement added.