By Ginika Okoye Gwagwalada (FCT) –   The Federal Government says it will soon establish a school and centres to train farm managers and manage farm mechanisation equipment in the country. Chief Audu Ogbeh, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, said this in Gwagwalada on Thursday at the inauguration ceremony of tractors supplied by John Deere Agricultural Equipment Company. The minister said that the establishment of the school had become necessary in efforts to educate the youth, in particular, on methods of farming and practising sustainable agriculture. He said that agriculture had failed in the past and had a tendency to fail in the future because of poor management of farms and equipment. “We in government are not competent enough to manage tractors and no government should attempt to manage tractors, we should not as we cannot do it well. “We have to establish centres for training farm managers. Why did agriculture fail so much in the past? Why is it in danger of failing in the future? “Many affluent Nigerians are now going into agriculture but agriculture does not just happen because you have money, there are certain rules. “It is not enough to have a B.Sc or Ph.D in plant entomology, which is the science of agriculture, but the act of agriculture is different. “There is need for training in farm management, farm organisation, equipment management, application of science and technology on the farm. “We have to build a school very soon for the training of farm managers,’’ he said. In his remark, Mr Jason Brantley, the Managing Director of John Deere International Agriculture Equipment Company, said that the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement put in place for the tractor supply would deliver sustainable results. According to him, the usage of the tractors supplied by the company will help the farmers to increase agricultural production. Also speaking, Alhaji Danladi Garba, the National Chairman, Tractor Owners and Hiring Facilities Association of Nigeria (TOHFAN), said that the dearth of training for tractor mechanics was one of the major challenges facing tractor services. News Agency of Nigeria reports that 10,000 tractors will be supplied by John Deere to the Federal Government within a five-year period at the cost of N12 million per tractor. NAN also reports that plans are underway to provide tractor services to farmers at a very cheap rate so as to boost food production in the country. (NAN)