By Raji Rasak Lagos –  The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) on Wednesday decried the spate of violent attacks on its workers while on lawful duties. Mr Godwin Idemudia, EKEDC’s General Manager, Corporate Communications, Lagos, in a statement, said their workers had been attacked by people claiming to be protesting against epileptic power supply. He said that the company was fully determined to put a stop to such an act through prosecution of perpetrators. According to him, there is a case of violent attack on a staffer of the company in Apapa District whereby the staffer was beaten to a bleeding point. Idemudia warned perpetrators of such an act to desist from it forthwith. He said that the company would stop at nothing within the ambit of the law to ensure that perpetrators did not go unpunished. He said that neither poor power supply nor billing error should be a plausible excuse for anybody to take the law into his hand and unleash violence on workers on lawful duties. Idemudia said, “The company only supplies power to its customers based on the bulk energy load it receives from the national grid. “If the generation level is low nationwide, it will also affect power supply to electricity customers not only in Eko Disco operational territory, but also all electricity customers nationwide.” Idemudia condemned the use of billing errors as an excuse to attack its staff. The spokesman said that often times, some customers usually employed this as a smokescreen for them not to pay after consuming electricity energy. He said that its customers rather than resorting to acts of vandalism on its staff and property, they should the lodge their complaints regarding the company’s operations through lawful avenues. He said they could do that by contacting the customer care centre either on phone or online. They could also put such complaints in writing to any of the operational units of the company, he said. He said that no responsible organisation would fold its arms and watch its staff on legitimate duties to be harassed and molested. Idemudia said that such an organization would take appropriate legal actions to contain such criminal acts. “Let all be reminded that violent attack on anybody remains a serious violation of the law of the land. “As a company, we are determined to ens