By Abbas Bamalli Karaye (Kano State) –  The Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje has warned Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in the state against rejecting corps members posted to their organisations. He gave the warning on Wednesday at the closing ceremony of the orientation course for 2018 Batch ‘A’ corps members in Karaye Local Government Area of the state. Ganduje, represented by the state commissioner of Justice, Mr Ibrahim Mukhtar said, “you should rather make them comfortable and ensure their Safety, welfare and Security at all times”. The Governor called on the corps members not to forget that the greatness of any nation was determined by the quality, zeal and determination of its youths. “You are blessed with varying ability and talents hence the need for you to work hard for the development of our dear nation”. Ganduje advised them to be good representatives of their people and the scheme at their various places of primary assignment. “you are expected to uplift the banner of the scheme and your states through respecting the culture, religion and the tradition of your host communities”. He advised the corps members to emulate their predecessors by contributing meaningful projects for the development of their host communities. The Governor commended the scheme in Kano for all the necessary support given to his administration in terms of their development projects, especially at the rural areas. Earlier in his welcome address, the NYSC Coordinator in Kano, Alhaji Ladan Baba said that the three weeks orientation exercise ended successfully without serious challenges. According to him, the scheme was in active partnership with various agencies that successfully inducted, trained and undoubtedly prepared the corps members as change agents for the tasks of nation building. “They have been prepared with unique and rich experiences in the areas of security, discipline, endurance and spirit of selfless services to Nigeria. “They were trained on skills acquisition and entrepreneurship development in order to be self-reliant and employers of labour rather than job seekers at the end of the service year. (NAN)