ABUJA (Sundiata Post) Nigeria is a booming factory of awards and prizes. That’s what profound mediocrity breeds. I have seen awards. I have attended award ceremonies. I have seen the vanity of it all. I wonder why anyone bothers about them. I have seen idiots give awards to wise men. I have seen noble people give awards to fools. And to rogues. I have seen hungry people arrange awards and prizes to feed themselves. I have seen the good and the ugly share an award. I have seen the dishonorable giving honors. I have seen accomplished people tumble over themselves to receive bogus awards. I have seen people buy awards and prizes, and gloat. I have seen fraudsters fool government officials, collect our money and give them awards. I have seen the wise tout awards concocted by fools. I have seen the righteous take awards from satan and celebrate. I have seen meaningless awards clothed with big robes and sold in high places. I have thought about these awards. I have wondered why recipients are blind to its naked roguishness. How have the givers and recipients continued take themselves seriously. The ceremonies are always elaborate. Family and friends are summoned, gathered. Pomp is brought in full. Musicians are hired. Asoebi women are assembled. The men and the women receive these worthless plagues and lose their heads to orations made by fools. they eat, drink and pump fists. They dance with family and friends and celebrate frivolity. The following year his neighbor or colleague buys his and he attends, lends him seriousness. Every politician in Nigeria who lives long enough will win an award from a major media house. Judas, Anini, Oyenusi, Brother Jero…… Every media house has an annual awards nite. When they run out of fools, they give the awards to imbeciles. Then the next day, they blame the rot in the society on policemen and politicians. On the politicians whom the have all honored. Show me any past governor that hasn’t received multiple awards from the major media houses. If every governor has won ‘best governor of the year award’ then why are the media houses sick of our rotten country? Source: Facebook