By Ese E. Ekama  Abuja   –       Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi has warned contractors handling projects across the state to expedite work in order to deliver democracy dividends to on their contractual agreements. The governor made the call in Lokoja on Tuesday, while speaking with newsmen shortly after the State Executive Council meeting. “We are improving on our monitoring and evaluation of projects to ensure that Kogites have value for money on the different projects going on across the state. “We are satisfied with the level of work at the Diagnostic Centre. It was a laudable dream by my predecessor that my administration is bringing to reality. It will be one of the best in Nigeria when completed. “I have visited a good number of projects too and have received briefs from the Commissioner for Works and Urban Development. We are progressing well and we are hopeful that in a couple of months, we shall be commissioning some of these projects. “The state government will keep a close eye on contractors handling our projects. They must key into our determination to deliver these projects in record time in order to change the Kogi narratives and improve the living standards of the people of the state”. In a related development, residents of Ankpa town have commended the state government for ongoing reconstruction of Ankpa township roads. A resident, Alh. Abdulrahman Isah told reporters that the governor had proven his commitment to infrastructure development in the state. “When people talk about salaries, we the traders talk about good roads. The ongoing work on Ankpa township roads has shown that the governor is not only here for the civil servants but for all of us. “We are happy that salary payment has improved and that contractors are back to sites to continue their work. It has also shown the detribalised nature of the governor as the father of the state”. Also, a civil servant, Mrs Eleojo Samuel said the roads had further reinforced his faith in the present administration.