By Donald Ugwu  Kano   –    Kano State governor Abdullahi Ganduje on Thursday attributed the massive infrastructure development in the state to the increase in internally generated revenue (IGR) and prudent resource management by his administration. He said this while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano, after seeing off visiting Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Ganduje had taken the Vice President round the two-kilometer overhead Bridge and interchanges as well as the Zaria Road and skills acquisition centre under construction for which the contractors gave September to October deadline for completion. Cue in audio ““First of all, issue number one is prudence in order that we block leakages so that whatever we have we make sure that we have it for optimum utilization. “”Secondly, we have increased our internally generated revenue by reforming the system and employing new hands, young people, who are knowledgeable experienced. ““So we have increased out internally generated revenue tremendously. “”And we are operating an open government and we ensure that there is adequate supervision in whatever we are doing. “”That is why we are coming up with quality projects and quality programmes.’’ Cue out audio The governor also spoke about the patronage of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in the state noting that the financial support to successful MSMEs was based on result obtained from the state government’s evaluation team on their performance. “”We have an evaluation committee that assesses performance of such empowerment programmes and they tell us what we need to do. “”But already we have trained most of them and we have given them empowerment, some of them we have given tools to work with. “”So you can see that it is a sustainable programme,’’ he added. The governor also reacted to the request for more funding by the MSMEs saying the government had plans to increase the amount given to support them in future. According to Ganduje, it is a continuous programme and the more the government gathers experience and modifies it the more it will be encouraged to give more funds. He said that the important thing was to give to the target group, who actually required the funding, and “if also they required some skills the government would provide them with such skills.