ABUJA (Sundiata Post) Yoruba is one of the most beautiful languages around the world. So rich is its depth that it is difficult to succinctly capture its very essence in the English translation. But, of course, certain interpretations could suffice in a few instances. The word abosi is a big one in Yoruba, albeit often facilely deployed to use even in harmless/friendly conversations. But the closest interpretation that the English language has for it is HYPOCRISY. Alabosi, therefore, means a hypocrite. The Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, is neither infallible nor a preternatural creature. He, therefore, has his inadequacies like every other person. He is, of course, not proud of whatever his personal foibles are. But the fact that he recognises some of these shortcomings and is striving hard to improve on them is where he stands tall in the gathering of those who boast the perfection they are never close to. If you are surprised that he had such a glowing victory at the just concluded governorship primaries of the APC, then, it is sincere to infer that your knowledge of ‘rudimentary politics’ is not surprisingly deficient. Events culminating in the exercise of yesterday were needlessly heated. Decorum was thrown to the wind and personal decency trampled upon. And you’d ask: over what? Nothing altruistic! To think that the “Ekiti does not like Fayemi” narrative was an orchestration by the opposition handed some of Fayemi’s disgruntled party members to market, should ordinarily worry anyone. But the truth is that it is as empty and of no consequences as those who conceived it as well as their in-house allies. For the discerning, it is now a waste of time dwelling on the credibility of the 2014 election that saw Fayemi’s ouster from the Government House. Even if Fayemi would lose at all, the 16-0 the opposition has not ceased to celebrate is ironically what has continued to discredit the same result. A governor with the record of such a sterling performance could not even pull off a win in his own local government? But what did Governor Ayo Fayose come to the election with? An inglorious exit the first time and a debilitating senatorial election defeat the second time. Yet, he became the celebrated circus artist, often confidently bluffing his people love him. The same people, who conspired to chase him out in 2005/2006 and did not deem him fit to represent them at the senate in 2011? Common, even if common sense isn’t common at all, it cannot be applicable to everyone. There are persons, who can clearly read the lines, however, poorly written. So, what brought about the momentum-seizing hatred of the Ekiti people against Fayemi? That is why they are nothing but pure lies sold from the pit of hell just to enrich an obviously impossible political de-marketing of an innocent person with clear development vision. There is no gainsaying the fact that Fayemi must have learnt his lessons too, whatever his personal flaws. He is therefore by every positive consideration going to turn out a better governor if elected this second time and indeed, the best man for the job. His experience in public administration and politics has improved. His human relation is many notches up from what it used to be. His understanding of people’s mercurial behavioural disposition is a lot richer. Indeed, Ekiti has in Fayemi a man, who will re-establish their place in local development chart and the world map. Lest the abosi against his standing for the party primary much less the main election was conceived without the God factor. God does not side with abosi or endorse the conspiracy of alabosi. If Fayemi had sincerely wronged them, God would not have thwarted the abosi plot and he would not be close to where he is today. Truth is, a majority of those he might have wronged he had also tried to propitiate in different ways, including helping many to secure placement in the current government. Yet, all they did was to propose some inhuman machinations but God, at His own time, disposed that which pleased Him. By now, it is expected that some people would have learnt a thing or two from the outcome of the Ekiti APC primary. It was a comfortable win for an underrated, de-marketed and needlessly bashed Fayemi even though very hotly contested. God hates it when men tend to fight His battle, especially when they are not any better than the one they seek to crucify from their differing stand point. The absence of the God factor was evident in the result and should they take their God complex beyond this juncture, God has an even bigger cane kept somewhere for their abosi reunion. July 14 is here soon, the world waits to see how much of party supremacy and democratic ethos the gathering of Fayemi’s unnatural opponents are willing to obey as well as exhibit in larger interest. But, for now, congratulations, Dr. Kayode Fayemi! *Source: Facebook