By Ayo Akanni ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The President of the Senate Bukola Saraki; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara; Governor Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal; former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, and about 50 other members of the New PDP (nPDP) group in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), have met to decide their political future. The meeting was held on Thursday night at the residence of a former governor in Abuja. Sources at the meeting said a number of options were considered during the meeting, prominent among which was dumping the APC for PDP. A statement released Saturday by the chairman of the group, Kawu Baraje, said the meeting was convened to brief members of the group about the outcome of their meeting with APC leaders. “Nigerians may recall that members of the former New PDP Block within the All Progressives Congress (APC) addressed a letter dated April 27, 2018 to the Chairman of APC where we informed the party of our grievances and expectations from both the party and government of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Following this development, the party invited us and we honoured their invitation for a meeting. “We met with the leadership of the party last week during which we resolved to report the outcome of our meeting to our members and stakeholders before arriving at any decision or proceeding with the next phase of discussions or actions with the APC and government. “I am glad to inform you therefore that we have briefed our members at a meeting convened in Abuja on Wednesday, 23rd May 2018 where we reviewed the state of the nation and our party, APC and constituted committees on various issues especially on how to rescue Nigeria from economic, social, political and especially security challenges. “The meeting was well attended by members of the nPDP including serving and former Governors, Senators, Members of the House of Representatives, and other aggrieved APC stakeholders. Those that attended the meeting include: HE Sen. (Dr.) Abubakar Bukola Saraki, CON, President of the Senate, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, Speaker, House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, CFR, Governor of Sokoto State, Sen. Rabiu M. Kwankwaso, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola and Admiral Murtala Nyako (Rtd). Others are Sen. Mohammad Adamu Aliero, Sen. Danjuma Goje, Sen. John Owan Enoh, Sen. Emmanuel Andy Uba, Sen. Dr. Ibrahim Gobir, Sen. Rufai Ibrahim, Sen. Ibrahim A. Danbaba, Sen. Suleman Nazif and Sen. Isa Hamma Misau. Also in the meeting are Sen. Muhammed Ubali Shitu, Sen. Shehu Sani, Sen. Dino Melaye, Sen. Suleiman O. Hunkuyi, Sen. Shaaba Lafiagi, Sen. Bala Ibn Na’Allah, Sen. David Umaru, Sen. Barnabas Gemade and Alh. Abubakar K. Baraje, Chairman Former nPDP. Other lawmakers at the meeting are Rep. Aminu S. Shagari, Rep. Kabiru Marafa Achida, Rt. Hon. Isa M. Ashiru, Hon. Muh’d Musa Soba, Hon. Mark Gbillah, Rep. Sani Mohd Rano, Rep. Garba Umar Durbunde, Rep. Aliyu Madaki, Rep. Zakari Mohammed, Hon. Rufai Ahmed Chachangi, Hon. Razak Atunwa, Hon. Emmanuel M. Udende and Hon. Hassan Saleh. The rest are Hon. Nasiru Garo Sule, Hon. Orker Jev, Hon. Aliyu Ahman Pategi, Hon. Isah Halilu B., Hon. Rabiu Garba Kaugama, Hon. Abdussamad Dasuki, Hon. Ismaila A. Gadaka, Hon. Lado Suleja, Hon. Dickson Tarkighir, Hon. Babatunde Kolawole, Hon. Dr. Bode Ayorinde, Hon. U. Danjuma Shida, Hon. Danburam Nuhu, Hon. Sunday Adepoju, Hon. Sani Zorro, Hon. Ahmed Garba Bichi, Hon. Garba Ibrahim Mohammed and a host of others.