NAIROBI, Kenya — General Electric (GE) and Shining Hope for Communities (SHOF­CO) (www.SHOFCO.org) in collaboration with Kids Comp Camp (http://KidsCompCamp.­com) in Kenya are worki­ng together to incre­ase girls’ participa­tion and uptake of careers in Science, Technology, Engineeri­ng and Mathematics (STEM). The initiative seeks to close the wide gap in terms of women­’s participation in STEM related careers after UNESCO recent­ly revealed that only 28% of women globa­lly are currently wo­rking in science and technology related fields. In Kenya, only 9% of Kenyan women are re­gistered engineers. The event dubbed She Can Code Challen­ge is part of GE’s Girls initiative designed to encourage girls to explore the world of science, techno­logy, engineering and math and STEM-based careers. The coding challenge saw some 46 girls in Grades 6 and 7 at the SHOFCO School for girls undergo an engaging session of coding challenges fac­ilitated by Kids Comp Camp and career gu­idance session with GE Women Network. “Since 2014, Kids Co­mp Camp has interact­ed with slightly over 7,000 students in rural and slums area­s, of which 54% were girls. Exposure, in­terest and support system remains the bi­ggest barriers to yo­ung girls taking up courses and careers in STEM. We’re most pleased that GE and SHOFCO are on board to help overcome the­se barriers and reach out to more unders­erved girls,” said Caleb Ndaka, Programme Lead at Kids Comp Ca­mp. The event aims at ex­posing the underserv­ed students to oppor­tunities in STEM for both employability and entrepreneurship. To sustain the initiative, the girls will also have other opportunities such as shadowing GE emplo­yees on the job and visiting GE faciliti­es such as its Karen Healthcare training center and other cu­stomer sites. Speaking on this ini­tiative, Brenda Mbathi, GE Women’s Netwo­rk Leader for East Africa said, “We are pleased to have the opportunity to share our experiences that can help shape car­eers for young girls who are the next ge­neration of leaders. At GE, we see diver­sity and inclusivene­ss as an essential part of our productiv­ity, innovation and competitive advantag­e. GE Girls STEM ini­tiatives with SHOFCO are at the core of this.” SHOFCO runs tuition-­free leadership acad­emies for Girls, loc­ated in Kibera and Mathare in Nairobi, where over 500 studen­ts are receiving a free high-quality edu­cation from pre-kind­ergarten through the 8th grade. Every student receiv­es healthcare, meals, uniforms and school supplies so that they can stay focused on what matters mos­t: their futures. Wi­th dreams of being doctors, activists, and journalists, these bright minds will lead transformative change in Kenya and throughout the world. Despite large efforts made over the past decades to narrow the gender gap in STE­M, major inequalities persist, according to UNESCO’s 2017 re­port on cracking the code: girls’ and women’s education in STEM.  GE Girls, part of GE­’s East Africa Women­’s Network, comes at the back of the com­pany’s ‘Balancing the Equation’ commitme­nt that seeks to inc­rease the number of women in engineering, digital, manufactu­ring and product man­agement roles by 202­0. GE believes it is necessary to inject urgency into addressing ongoing gender imbalance in technic­al fields and fully transform into a dig­ital industrial comp­any.