By Joseph Edeh  Abuja   –    Nigeria Police Force says it will partner with Purple Ribbon Entertainment to unveil, “The Police Station,” a Television series to showcase and promote activities of the force. The Force Spokesman, ACP Jimoh Moshood made the disclosure at a joint news conference with officials of the company on Thursday in Abuja. Moshood said that the project was part of efforts of the force to repose confidence of the public on the force by implementing the community policing strategic guideline. “The force in its resolve to broaden its community policing scope is engaging the the entertainment industry and partnering with the company to unveil a TV series, entitled “The Police Station ,” he said. He said that the series was dedicated to also showcase the achievements of the force to counter the wrong perception of the police by members of the public. The spokesman added that the series would showcase the true life stories of police officers and would further educate and enlighten members of the public on duties and challenges of the force. He said that the production was opened to all, both Nigerians and non-Nigerians, who are involved with the police in one way or the other. “To be part of the project, send a one minute monologue to @one house films or @greendoveproductions and register on their website @www.1housefilms ,” he said. He said that one house films and green dove productions were talents recruiting platforms. Moshood said that the Inspector-General of Police in its efforts to make the force at par with its counterparts, would provide equipment and facilities for the project. On funding for the project, Mohsood urged members of the public to be part of it, adding that funding was critical to the operations of the force. “We are doing our best in spite of the little funding to the police,” he said. In her remarks, Chioma Okoye, a film maker and official of the company, said that the partnership was aimed at protecting and boosting the image of the force. “We decided to partner with the Nigeria Police Force to add more value to its activities,” she said. She said that the series which is aimed at showcasing activities of the force would last for over 10 years. “We want to create more actors and actresses in the Nollywood industry,” he said. She said that it would commence as soon as necessary arrangements were concluded. Okoye, however, was silent on the amount of money to be expended on the project, promising to make known the amount at a later date. In attendance were Nollywood actors like Bruno Iwoha, Yule Edochie and Charles Awurum among others.