By Ayo Akanni ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has declared that the All Progressives Congress (APC), by its manifest retrogressive, violent and despotic proclivities, has proven to be the clog in Nigeria’s quest for national cohesion, happiness and economic prosperity as well as democratic development. PDP added that the APC has demonstrated that it was never a political party designed for governance and development, but a contraption for oppression and vendetta. According to a statement by the party’s spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, “already, there are plans by APC to extend the clampdown on opposition leaders to regular citizens, who have seen through their lies and deception and are in open agitation to vote them out in 2019”. PDP also noted that since the recent boast by President Muhammadu Buhari on his abuse of rights as a military ruler, there has been an escalation of clampdown on citizens, particularly, the opposition, in various parts of our country. “It is also instructive to note that since it came to power by deceit and propaganda in 2015, the APC has done nothing except actions and comments that promote hatred, violence and daily bloodletting among Nigerians; causing of disharmony among arms and tiers of government in addition to undermining our democratic and security institutions. “It is also on record that the APC has not formulated any clear-cut programme for good governance; it has never called its government to order in their recklessness, particularly, on the documented abuse of human rights and violation of our constitution and democratic order. “The APC has never intervened in the bloodletting in various parts of the country, caused to fester by its incompetent and insensitive administration; it has remained aloof, giving credence to allegations that such disturbances serve its purpose of promoting confusion to frustrate the conduct of a credible, free and fair general elections. “Despite attempts in blaming past administrations, it has since become clear that the on-going barefaced looting of our national treasury, particularly through the sleazy oil subsidy regime under President Buhari’s supervision, coupled with government’s gross incompetence and official highhandedness, are directly responsible for the economic hardship and escalated violence in our nation today. “The harsh policies of the APC administration, which has scared away investors and President Buhari’s unrelenting de-marketing of our nation in the international arena, have led to the massive closure of businesses, unprecedented loss of jobs, mass unemployment, dearth of foreign investments and total stagnation of our economy. “Uptil now, the APC has not offered any explanation to the leaked memo detailing the looting of N9 trillion at the NNPC, the budget padding in ministries, departments and agencies, stealing of billions in the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) and Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) intervention funds. “We want the APC and its leaders to know that they are not bigger than our nation. Nigerians have already reached a consensus against them and no amount of harassment, arrests and trampling will cow the citizens in their resolve to vote out APC in 2019”, the statement added.