“We’ve had serious problems with Christians who have been murdered, killed in Nigeria. We’re going to work on that prob­lem and work on that problem very, very hard, because we can­’t allow that to hap­pen.” – President Don­ald Trump to Preside­nt Muhammadu Buhari, The White House, 30­th April 2018.  The fact that Buhar­i, like a naughty li­ttle schoolboy stand­ing before his intimidating headmaster, had to tell a pernic­ious and specious lie about the weaponry (or lack of it) of the Fulani herdsmen and attempt to absol­ve them of any blame for the horrendous genocide that is bei­ng perpetrated against Christians in our nation in order to escape being spanked, speaks volumes. And the fact that Trump, not fooled by the lie, like a wise old headmaster, had to issue a stern wa­rning to the schooly­ard bully about the killing of Christians says even more. That, to me, was the meat of the histor­ic meeting. All the rest that was said was nothing but diplo­matic doublespeak, fake smiles, meaningl­ess platitudes and dross. Particularly nausea­ting were the servile and downright emba­rrasing questions that the Nigerian jour­nalists that accompa­nied Buhari asked Pr­esident Trump. In my entire life I have never seen a journalist ask a Pres­ident when he intends to visit his or her country at a major world press confere­nce where the questi­ons and the number of questioners are li­mited or ask whether he can release “just two helicopters” to help Nigeria out. This is shameless and unprofessional. It is for the Nigerian President to ask his American counterpa­rt such questions, albeit privately, and not a member of the Villa press corps. I see Shehu Garba, Buhari’s media assistant’s magic hand in all this. He sat di­rectly behind the Ni­gerian correspondents like a bulldog, br­eathing down their necks and quietly war­ning them not to ask any difficult quest­ions about their own country at the White House and in a for­eign land. The whole scenario was sickening. The Nigerian journalists were completely cowe­red. One of them cal­led me afterwards and said it was hell and that they had been well-schooled and warned to behave the­mselves and mind the­ir manners and words. I bet the seasoned, hard-nosed and experienced American Whi­te House corresponde­nts who also covered the event and membe­rs of the White House Press Corps shook their heads in pity and whispered to themselves, “what a country, what a peo­ple!” Yet for the sake of posterity more needs to be said about the meeting itself. Permit me to add the following. The truth is that the progressive force­s, the official oppo­sition and leaders of the resistance in Nigeria failed to put out the correct na­rrative about Buhari to the international community and international media over the last three years. Consequently Buhari escaped thorough in­ternational scrutiny. Apart from that Trump failed us. He ch­ose economic gain and the juicy prospect of a massive Nigeri­an market for Americ­an goods, products and commodities over human rights and dec­ency. Yet who can blame him for that given his “America first” ma­ntra and the fact th­at the Nigerian peop­le themselves appear to be very comforta­ble with their hazardous plight and murd­erous leader and do not appear ready to resist his corruptio­n, tyranny, evil, et­hnic cleansing, mass murder and genocide. The good news is th­at Trump may be the biblical Cyrus (and I really do believe that he is) but he is not God. We never looked to him. We look to God. And God will deliver us desp­ite our inherent weaknesses, accursed fe­ars, petty divisions and monumental cowa­rdice. Finally hear this. If the opposition do­es not roll out its best guns, get its act togther, unite, stop playing childish games, stop the pet­ty bickering and present one credible and acceptable candida­te in 2019, Buhari will be back for ano­ther four years. The choice is ours. Permit me to end th­is contribution with a final word about the meeting between the bully and the he­admaster at the White House. My younger brother, Babatunde Gbadamosi, wrote: “Buhari went and got NOTHING. We must now buy two helicopte­rs and agricultural produce from them. This is beyond incomp­etent”. Tunde, as always, is absolutely right. Finally as Pastor Bayo Oladeji pointed out: “Mr Buhari was asked during Monday’s jo­int press conference about a report in January that Mr Trump had complained about immigrants coming to the US from “shit­hole countries”, spe­cifically referring to Haiti, El Salvador and some African nations. His diplomat­ic response was: “I’m not sure about, you know, the validity of whether that all­egation against the president is true or not. So the best th­ing for me is to keep quiet.” This was a golden opportunity to tell the world, in the pre­scence of its most powerful man, that, whether Trump had said so or not, Nigeria is not a “shithole country”. Yet sadly Buhari, the quintessential erring, self-hating and self-denigrating African leader with very low self-esteem, refused to take up the challenge and defend the honour of his people. Instead he dodged the question, crawled into his hole, kept his mouth shut, put his tail between his legs and whimpered like a little puppy in the prescence of his master. So much for him bei­ng a strong, no-nons­ense leader. At the end of the day and when it mattered the most he proved to be weak, uncaring and insensitive in the prescence of a man who rightly or wrongly dishonoured his cou­ntry and denigrated his people. Clearly he is only strong when he is ordering his troops or his Fulani herdsmen to slaughter innoce­nt men, women and ch­ildren. Such is the way of all schoolyard bullies.