By Chibuike Nwabuko  Abuja （Sundiata Post）- Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, has rekindled hope in the lives of the people of Agbogugu community in Agwu Local Government Area of Enugu where windstorm recently ravaged many buildings, investments, and social amenities having undertaken to renovate Shikaghom Primary School, Agbogugu.  Ekweremadu also donated transformers and cash to help rebuild dwellings of the most vulnerable persons, who were affected by the storm.  He disclosed this on Sunday in a statement signed by his
Special Adviser (Media), Uche Anichukwu sent to Sundiata Post.  Speaking at the weekend when he visited Agbogugu community for a firsthand assessment of the development, the Senator, who expressed gratitude to God that no life was lost, however, called on public-spirited individuals Nigerians to come to the aid of the community.  He said: “We cannot afford to sit by while our children bear the brunt of this natural disaster that has reduced their school to rubbles. We will move in immediately and ensure that the structures of this school are restored a better state than they were prior to this unfortunate incident. That way, our children will not only continue with their education, but they will also school under healthy and conducive learning conditions.  “As Africans, we are used to communal life where everyone is his brother’s keeper. Therefore, I want to use this opportunity to call on everyone that can help in whatsoever way to go ahead and do so as we cannot totally depend on government, especially in a disaster situation as this.  “Very important also, this is rainy season, hence we must be as quick as possible in reducing the impact of the devastation on the affected persons”.  Ekweremadu, who was on an official assignment in Morocco at the time of the incident, commended the Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, for his quick interventions to ameliorate the challenges currently faced by Agbogugu and other affected communities in the State.  He also lauded the member representing Awgu-Aninri-Oji River federal Constituency, Hon. Toby Okechukwu, for providing relief materials to affected persons, just as he commended the Chairman of Awgu Local Government Area, Hon. Stanley Okeke, undertaking to replace all electricity polls destroyed by the storm.  