By Fatima Mohammed-Lawal  Ilorin   –     Stakeholders in the Communication and Information industries have urged the Federal Government to integrate technology into every aspect of education to maximise the benefits of ICT-enabled learning system. The call was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the just concluded First International Conference on ICT entitled “ICT for National Development and its Sustainability (ICT4NDS 2018)”. The conference which was organised by the Faculty of Communication and Information Sciences, University of Ilorin, to mark its 10th anniversary was held from May 3 to May 4, 2018. According to the communiqué, the ICT-enabled learning system will boost youth employment; encourage multinational companies and foreign investors to build IT companies capable of producing exportable IT products. It, however, advised the Federal Government to key into ICT-driven entrepreneurship to reduce the army of unemployed youths in the country. It observed that due to the use of Information and Communication Technologies and its serious environmental problems, Nigeria should come up with policies that would ameliorate the problems. The communiqué decried lack of full integration of ICT in the implementation of Nigerian national development policies. “ICT has important roles in transforming a nation into a knowledge-based economy. “There should be consideration of the physically-challenged citizens through ICT infrastructures; securing Nigeria voting system through integration of biometric data and encouragement of private public partnership to develop ICT infrastructures,’’ it said. It expressed regret that Nigeria has failed to come up with a globally recognised ICT company or product originating from Nigerian indigenous technology. This, it said, was because the national economy has not been technologically driven and for Nigeria to be developed, it must develop its infrastructure. The communiqué suggested that the Federal Government should guide and regulate youths’ use of ICT through counselling and media literacy programmes. The highlights of the two-day conference included lectures and awards to distinguished personalities who have made impacts in the ICT industry.