By Stellamaris Ashinze  Lagos,     –     The Minister of Communications, Mr Shittu Adebayo, on Tuesday said that Nigeria Postal Service (NIPOST) had introduced five BVrevolutionary services to improve the lives of the citizens. Adebayo made this known at the Indo-Africa ICT Expo 2018 with the theme: “One World, One Platform: Let’s Talk About Digital Transformation”. He said that the revolutionary services would ease life especially in rural areas and generate revenues for the Federal Government. According to him, the revolutionary services are NIPOST banking and insurance, NIPOST property and development, transport and logistics, NIPOST e-commerce and e-governance The minister said that NIPOST banking and insurance would t replicate what rural banking was doing. “The majority of Nigerians are not financially inclusive; so, NIPOST is going to fill the gap. “The aim of NIPOST property and development service was to ensure that all the extra lands of NIPOST scattered all over the country were properly leased out. ” It will be leased to private sectors for shops and any other facility that would create income. “Transport and logistics service will ensure commercialisation of NIPOST fleet of vehicles which currently are used to carry reduced postal materials, as people no longer have course to write letters,” Adebayo said. He gave the assurance that patronising NIPOST would be beneficial. “When you patronise NIPOST, you are sure that no money will be lost. “You are also sure that NIPOST has all it takes because it is all over the place, in more than 1,500 locations in the country. “No other company has that strength of network; so, when you have NIPOST e-commerce services, you are sure of getting whatever you buy online from NIPOST. “Lastly, NIPOST e-governance helps to reduce cost and risk by ensuring that government facilities are made available at the rural areas and not only capital, the minister said. The Minister of Communications, India, Mr Manoj Sinha, said that the Expo indicated a positive synergy between India and Nigeria. Sinha was represented by Mr Amit Yadav, the Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Communications, India. He said that India had one of the largest telecommunications services with about 400 million penetration. “Our programme – Digital India, Skilled India – is an initiative of the government to bring inclusive c growth and development for the nation,” he said. Sinha said that 6.5 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product came from ICT. “We are hosting this edition of the programme to give more for opportunities. ” We believe that this initiative of the government will enable investors and bring broadband to villages,” he said.