By Fortune Abang Abuja –   The Liberian Delegation to the 2018 ECOWAS Parliament, has called for proper scrutiny of migrants, to address insecurity at borders within the African sub-region. Mr Clearance Massaquoi, who led the Delegation, made the call while reading the country’s report at the First Ordinary Session of the Parliament on Saturday in Abuja. He said that the lack of adequate security measures at the regional borders of ECOWAS contribute to insecurity, particularly in Liberia. According to him, Liberia has porous borders; we have 176 entry points to the country with only 46 that are formal. Massaquoi said “this tells how much our entry points are porous, which has to do with security and also to do with trade. “ECOWAS have a system now whereby citizens from member states have access to free movement of people in the region. “As much as we are implementing the free movement agreement with ECOWAS with the porous nature of our borders, we have to ensure we are careful. “This is important because we do not want the situation to be misused by people who bring instability, in our country. “We have come up with a measure aimed at scrutinizing whoever enters into the country or town is profiled, in order to arrest people that migrate through illegal points.” He said although the United Nations Mission in Liberia had finally ended its peacekeeping operations in the country, the provision and management of national security had become challenge. He further said that by such act the international community set standard to be met by new and restructured security team. “The security set up has been aligned to conform to other countries within the ECOWAS community,” he said. He identified corruption to be among other issues that hinder growth not only in Liberia but Africa in general and commended member states for fighting against it. He said that efforts had been put on ground to tackle corruption as a country to match up other member states in the Africa sub-region. He commended ECOWAS for the establishment of intervention projects in areas of electricity power supply, construction of roads and health facilities, to have enhanced nation building process in Liberia. He, however, said that plans were on by Liberia’s Parliament to commemorate the 43rd anniversary of ECOWAS in the country.(NAN)