Geneva – First vaccine campaign against cholera in Yemen has started, 18 months after war as sanitation crisis triggered an epidemic. However, World Health Organisation said it did not yet have permission to do nationwide vaccinations. Some senior Houthi officials whose forces control the capital Sanaa, have objected to vaccinations and this had already delayed the programme by nearly a year, aid workers said. There have been more than one million suspected cases of cholera in Yemen, and 2,275 recorded deaths since Nov 2016, the WHO says. The oral vaccination campaign, which started in four districts in Aden on Sunday targeting 350,000 people, coincided with the rainy season. The season, health workers said, might spread the disease further. Michael Ryan, WHO Assistant Director-General, told a news briefing on Monday that “we
have plans in place to extend that to risk-prone zones. “We are still negotiating with health authourities in north of the country to plan those campaigns,” “For now, we don’t have established dates for those campaigns, but we are ready to move… just as soon as we get those necessary approvals.” WHO cholera expert Lorenzo Pizzoli said in a tweet from Aden on Sunday that the campaign hoped to cover at least four million people in areas at risk. The disease is spread by faeces in sewage contaminating water or food, and it can kill because patients quickly lose fluids through vomiting and diarrhoea. However, it can be treated with oral rehydration salts. “Cholera is still present and this is the classic situation where we’ve had a first big wave last year, and we fully expect another wave this year. “That wave could be as large or potentially even larger,” Ryan said. Water sanitation and treatment systems have been destroyed in many parts of Yemen, and access to health care remains extremely limited, he added. Yemen’s war, a proxy conflict between Iran-aligned Houthis and the internationally-recognised-government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi, which is backed by a Saudi-led-alliance, has killed more than 10,000 people since 2015 and displaced more than two million. In July 2017, the International Coordinating Group on Vaccine Provision – which manages a global stockpile – earmarked one million cholera vaccines for Yemen. But the WHO and local authourities together decided to scrap a vaccination plan on logistical and technical grounds and the doses were diverted to South Sudan. “’The largest cholera vaccination drive in history, targeting more than two million people across Africa, is now being carried out in five countries. “These countries are:- Zambia, Uganda, Malawi, South Sudan and Kenya – the WHO and GAVI vaccine alliance said on Monday. (Reuters/NAN)