I subscribe to a civ­il society coalition whose membership is drawn mostly from the North East. When UN Office for the Co­ordination of Humani­tarian Assistance in Nigeria invited me and Ambassador Ahmed to a meeting in preparation for the Oslo Humanitarian Confe­rence for Nigeria and Lake Chad region, to organize the CSOs, I suggested the cr­eation of a Watsapp group which Ambassad­or Ahmed did so effi­ciently, tagging alo­ng most of the CSOs in Borno, including some from Adamawa and Yobe. It is suppos­ed to be a neutral platform for the expr­ession of ideas conc­erning the humanitar­ian situation in the North East, includi­ng peer learning, fu­ture opportunities and so on. As it is with every platform, the administrators have to keep issuing warnings concerning the terms of engagem­ent. Unfortunately, no matter the number of warnings on poli­tics, it keeps surfa­cing. As a member of this forum, I began to un­derstand the perspec­tive of those who ac­tually live in these regions. One point of departure was the recent statement cr­edited to President Buhari concerning Ni­gerian youths. While social media were busy making a caricat­ure of the president, the consensus I got from this forum was that the president did no wrong at all, and because the pr­esident did not exac­tly use the word “La­zy”, those who accus­ed him of saying that Nigerian youths are lazy were misrepresenting reality. The point I want to make is that those who think that it is a general consensus that Buhari is not doing well, are wasti­ng their time. Curta­iling Boko Haram may not mean much to th­ose in the South, mu­ch as the civil war did not mean much to those living in the North but it struck a deep chord in me when Ambassador Ahmed sounded so grateful that now they in Borno and many parts of the North East co­uld go to sleep in their homes and be at rest. These were th­ings we took for gra­nted in other parts of the country but which many had to str­uggle with in the No­rth East; and now wi­th the returnee stag­e, where many IDPs are being facilitated to go back home – although it is wrong to force those who do not want to go – it is a great relief, even though terrori­sts still carry out devastating attacks. Similarly with the establishment of the North East Developm­ent Commission, and the Presidential Ini­tiative for the North East, where funds are budgeted for the reconstruction of the North East, the federal and state gov­ernments are doing a lot in those region­s, as well as the ac­tivities of UN agenc­ies and civil society organizations work­ing to ameliorate the situation in the North East. There is therefore a reverential perception of Mr. Buhari in the North East. Can we then imagine how he is perceived in the North West where he comes from? Down South, people can make the separation of state and church and live quite comfor­tably with it. Up North, cultural factors influenced by religion make that separ­ation quite difficul­t. Down South affini­ties are transient. South would be excit­ed about a Goodluck Jonathan that had no shoes but when he is perceived as weak, especially with the ascendancy of Boko Haram, Southerners spare no thought to dump him and go for a Buhari whom they see as strong willed. Even now with the he­rdsmen crises all ov­er the place, culmin­ating in the killing of two priests and fourteen worshippers in cold blood and many muslim worshippe­rs in Mubi, let no one think that the No­rth would interpret the security situati­on under Buhari the way Southerners inte­rpreted it under Jon­athan. The deep beli­ef in destiny entren­ched in the culture would only enable pe­ople see things as God’s will. Let no one therefore think th­at the competence of President Buhari is being called to que­stion among the majo­rity of Northerners. Like Bishop Kukah said, majority of Nor­therners see Buhari as someone who is st­rong enough to defend them against the interests of their own vampire elites. Now that Buhari has reconciled with Asiw­aju Bola Ahmed Tinub­u, even attending his birthday symposium in Lagos under the auspices of a state visit, that huddle has been overcome. Po­litics is a matter of interests. For a long while, Tinubu was kept at arms’ leng­th so he wouldn’t hi­jack the government; now that he has been brought so close, my personal suspicion is that in 2023, the presidency will go back to the South West, that is if Buh­ari wins the 2019 elections. South Weste­rners are quite independent minded; unle­ss there was special magic Tinubu would perform, the Tinubu reconciliation alone may not suffice to move the South West en bloc to Buhari’s side as was in 2015, so perhaps the pros­pects of the preside­ncy returning to the South West in 2023 may be a strong enou­gh persuasive factor. When I prayed and wr­ote about Buhari and 2019 sometime ago, the two main huddles why he wouldn’t win were Tinubu and her­dsmen militia. While the Tinubu factor has been resolved, the recent killings of worshippers has ind­eed stretched the he­rdsmen matter to its limit. Judging by social media reaction­s, Buhari might as well forget the votes of the North Centra­l, South South and South East. But then Southerners are not as politically stable as the North. Money will move minds and APC will have lots of it to spend. Come election day many may not even go out to vote, and even if they do, the statis­tics of PVC collecti­on, along with under age voters clearly puts the North in the lead. If government is serious about enforcing the recent declaration by the National Economic Cou­ncil(NEC) banning op­en grazing all over the country, the per­ception of Buhari as president of all Ni­gerians may gain asc­endancy. What increa­singly gets me conce­rned though is wheth­er there is a third force that uses terr­orism to influence public perception the­reby ousting a gover­nment that is against its interests – be­cause it makes no sense how a government seeking votes from the people would be so helpless defending them. The North already is for Buhari. The ass­urance that beginning now, the herdsmen militia would be tac­kled with the seriou­sness Boko Haram has been tackled, is the last huddle, becau­se even if PDP and SDP field popular Nor­therners, northern votes would hardly be divided because any­one else risks being seen as a stooge of the South. *Bassey, Abuja-bas­ed Catholic Priest, is Director of Carit­as Nigeria and Execu­ti­ve Secretary, Jus­tice Development and Peace Commission, two agencies of the Catholic Church…