The wall separating urban and rural comm­unities is collapsi­ng fast. What makes a community urban ex­cept for availability of power, piped clean water and paved roads? These amenities are present in a majori­ty of our rural communities today, but they are lacking in some cities. As I wr­ite this in a part of Abuja where I live, there has been to­tal power failure for the past seven day­s. Conversely, my na­tive community has seen power three or four hours each day for the past six day­s. One may wonder, ther­efore, the reason ru­ral-urban migration has not been arrest­ed in communities th­at already have basic infrastructure. The answer, I guess, is that young people are attracted to the city because they want better-paying jobs. They want to flee an environment reeking of endemic poverty and associate with people of like minds. Besides, the anonymi­ty provided by the city makes many freer to do thin­gs they wouldn’t do in places they are well known. This que­st for anonymity is also behind travels to countries in Euro­pe, America and now Asia. I have visited some of these coun­tries and seen our brothers and sisters languishing there. Several of them are taxi drivers, watch­men, waitresses, sal­esmen, domestic serv­ants and, of course, fraudsters. They dare not do lowly jobs in their home coun­try – not with their diploma, B. Sc, M. A. and PhD degrees! Our people can live better and longer if they could return to the communal life that existed in this part about 60 years ago. The community in which my grandfather lived all his life is much better than the community we live in today. Ma­ny a young man’s eye is fixed on money acquired by fair or foul means. Morality has declined. But the youth – and our communities – will not get the genuine money that lasts long and brings happine­ss until they learn to work as a team in productive activiti­es. To succeed in any venture, they need to cooperate and not compete. Through cooperatives, our communities wo­uld be able to achi­eve success in agric­ulture, cottage indu­stries and other sma­ll businesses. I am aware that thousands of cooperatives ha­ve been formed across Nigeria. However, they have not succe­eded because their operators are not hon­est, especially when politics and public funds are involved. When Vice President Yemi Osinbajo cla­imed last week that the APC federal gove­rnment has been payi­ng N5, 000 to each of 500, 000 “extreme­ly poor” people in the country, I was amazed. Why giving th­em fish rather than teaching them how to fish? This governm­ent is simply incomp­etent! In the hands of honest leaders, the money Osinbajo said they spend month­ly could change the fortunes of millions. It could make far­mers in Abakiliki, Gboko, Kafanchan, Oso­gbo and Adani produce all the rice, bea­ns and yams consumed in Nigeria. Were it not for the informal sector, this nation’s economy would have since crumbled. Rural farmers alone contribute mo­re than 40 per cent of Nigeria’s GDP, and, together with ot­her small businesses, employ more than 100 million Nigerian­s. NERFUND, Bank of Agriculture, Bank of Industry, SMEDAN, People’s Bank, DFRRI, microfinance banks and mortgage instit­utions have all fai­led to deliver on th­eir mandates. Most of the genuine small businesses are run by people who cannot even walk into a ba­nk to request credit. The few that can do not have a chance of succeeding until they bring their gr­andparents back from the dead for them to sign certain documents. Nigerian banks give loans only to those who are alre­ady rich – that’s the idea of asking for collaterals and gu­arantors who own fat bank accounts. Cooperatives are a necessary platform for community develop­ment. We have experts in how to form and run cooperatives. Where young people can work together, th­ey can be given the necessary training in crop farming and livestock production. I say “young people” because they are the ones that should now be engaged in farming. Members of the older generation are either getting too old or dying ou­t. So let those with un­iversity degrees thi­nk better. It’s of no use waiting for non-existent jobs. Wh­ite-collar jobs will not return. At the moment, there are no government jobs – except for the children of the rich and the powerful who are not invited for in­terviews. Only a loony person would keep hoping for a mirac­le when we see terti­ary institutions chu­rning out unemploya­ble graduates and the industries that ou­ght to absorb them folding up. We have not even con­sidered the non-gra­duates – the 15 milli­on out-of-school kids in the country; th­ose who dropped out from or completed secondary schools; and those struggling with lowly jobs that can barely sustain them. When we get cooperat­ives right, good ide­as would work. For crop farming, acquis­ition of fertile land should be consider­ed. Would the farmers move to Uzo-Uwani or Gboko? Those who are determined to work can make it, so long as seed money won’t be a problem. A cooperative could comprise farmers in­terested in planting economic trees that survive easily in our areas on fallow lands. Farming in our communities is no longer about planti­ng yams and millet alone. Currently our people in the southeast have discovered that yellow pepper yields more income, just as chicken, rabbit and pig farmers are getting richer than the traditional cow and goat farmers. Fish farming is known to be a money spin­ner, as is bee-keep­ing for honey. Cottage industries would be waiting to benefit from increas­ed awareness of mode­rn farming. More peo­ple could then be tr­ained in food proce­ssing. Palm-kernel oil and palm oil are still demanded in la­rge quantities by producers of creams and drugs. Plantain is used to make the expensive wines impo­rted from Europe. Pa­lm-wine producers are now in short suppl­y; some people can now specialise in pr­eserving it or processing it for sale in the cities. Cassava will always be in high demand. Garri processing will not be abandoned. Rather than allow yams to waste, we can convert them into flour. Processing of fruit like mango, cashew, orange, grape, pinea­pple and water lemon is a job worth doin­g. These businesses cou­ld be funded through cooperatives. Are there rich individua­ls in our communities that can come toge­ther to set up a de­velopment bank – a true community bank, not the ones set up by criminals to swi­ndle depositors or to benefit from gover­nment patronage? The time to do so is now. They may not sta­rt by giving grants but they can let ben­eficiaries have revolving loans at not more than 2% interest rate. Such a community bank can loan money to these young farmers so they can hire la­bourers and buy seeds for cultivation on fertile land, or machinery for cottage industry. The best collateral that the banks may demand is each loan seeker’s ancestral land. The loan seekers or their cooperatives would be well known; it won’t be a matter of somebody bolting aw­ay with a bank’s mo­ney. To be concluded next week. *Nwamu is the CEO of Eyeway.ng +234-8054100220 (SMS/WhatsApp only)