ABUJA – After 22 years of strenuous efforts to prove his innocence, justice finally came the way of Alban Ajaegbu, on Friday as the Supreme Court, the highest judicial authority in Nigeria, handed him a not-guilty verdict over the infamous Otokoto murder case. Ajaegbu, was asked to go home a free man by the apex court, having discharged and acquitted him of all charges of complicity in the killing of an 11-year-old boy, Ikechukwu Okoronkwo, in 1996 in Owerri, Imo, for ritual purposes. The Otokoto saga, which started with the killing of Okoronkwo, a groundnut hawker, had practically set the entire Owerri metropolis on fire, as the riots that followed, saw to the sacking and destruction of properties belonging to people with questionable means of livelihood, suspected to be involved in ritual killings, armed robbery and advanced fee fraud, otherwise known as ‘419’. Virtually all those tried alongside in the celebrated case, in which Ajaegbu, a worker in the then popular Otokoto Hotel, where Okoronkwo was killed, either died in detention or were killed after conviction. The lead judgment, exculpating the accused, which was read by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, found loopholes in the previous judgements of the courts below, concluding for instance that the circumstantial evidence they relied on to convict and sentence Ajaegbu, untenable before the law. “It must be restated here that the appellant was charged with murder and the prosecution has the burden of proving beyond reasonable doubt that it was the act of the appellant that caused the death of the deceased. “The appellant does not have the burden to prove his innocence. The lower court held that the defence of the appellant raised a lot of suspicions. “The law is well settled that suspicion, no matter how grave, cannot take the place of proof.” She said that the assumption of the lower courts that because the appellant worked in the hotel for 17 years, he should have known who owned the farm that Okoronkwo was buried in, was wrong. “Suspicion cannot take the place of legal proof. That the appellant worked in the hotel for 17 years and didn’t know who owned the farm cannot make him guilty. “The law is settled, that an accused person told lies does not make him guilty.” The apex court held that the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The court, therefore, set aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Owerri of 2012, which upheld the death sentence of the trial court and acquitted and discharged Ajaegbo. The appeal court judgment was read by Justice Ejembi Eko, and the other four justices on the panel agreed with the judgment. Okoronkwo, a groundnut seller, was on Sept. 19, 1996, lured into a hotel, called Otokoko in Owerri and beheaded. Okoronko was reportedly given a bottle of Coca-Cola that had been spiced with drug before he was killed. The hotel was owned by one Vincent Duru, who became known as Chief Otokoto during the long trial, following his not guilty plea after his arrest and arraignment. Besides beheading Okoronkwo, the suspects, who were seven in number reportedly, removed different organs from his body, including his genitals before burying the corpse in a shallow grave. The crime was discovered when 32-year-old Innocent Ekeanyanwu, left the hotel to deliver the head in a polythene bag to a client. An okada (commercial motorcycle) rider, who gave Ekeanyanwu a ride discovered the fresh human head and alerted the police, leading to the arrest of Ekeanyanwu. *Source: Punch